 
The Lady's Tale: Consisting Of, Plays, Novels, Poems, and Familiar Letters. Several Of Which Never Before Publish'd. In Two Volumes
Davys, Mary.? The Works Of Mrs. Davys. 2 v. London: Printed by H. Woodfall, [etc.], 1725.
Author:Full text: 
The Lady's Tale
Title Page 
THE WORKS OF Mrs. DAVYS. VOL. II.
Title Page 
THE WORKS OF Mrs.DAVYS: Consisting of Plays, Novels, Poems, and Familiar Letters. Several of which never before Publish'd.

Vol. II. Containing,
I.
The Reform'd Coquet; a Novel.
II.
The Lady's Tale.
III.
The Cousins; a Novel. 
IV.
Familiar Letters betwixt a Gentleman and a Lady.

LONDON, Printed by H. Woodfall, at Elzevir's-Head, without Temple-Bar, for the Author. M.DCC.XXV. 


Title Page 
THE LADY'S TALE. 

[Page 123]

THE LADY's TALE. 
It is not possible, said the pleased Abaliza, to tell my dear Lucy what Joy her Company gives her Friend; it is now four whole Years since I had the pleasure of seeing you, during which time, every Circumstance of my Life is changed, saving the Friendship I always had for one, whose Behaviour deserved the best return: you are doubtless so conscious of your own Merit, as to believe, I mean yourself. 
My Abaliza, said Lucy, I think your Style is changed as well as Circumstances: I wou'd not exclude good Manners, but methinks this way of Conversation is a little too stiff for that easy agreeable thing call'd Friendship, in which, Ceremony ought to be excluded as much as Hypocrisy in Religion, since both spoil the fine end they were design'd for. 
'Tis true, said Abaliza, without Friendship there can be no Love, and without Love no Religion; but 
[Page 124]
what a strange Girl art thou, to run into those old-fashion'd Notions? Do you not know that all the World is Compliment, that nothing is so ridiculous as the Character of a Plain-dealer? Why, Child, you'll be hiss'd off the Stage of Life, if you set up now for Sincerity. 
Then Madam, reply'd Lucy, by those fine new-fashion'd Rules, I perceive, I am to take all those civil things you have said, for no more than a little exteriour Gloss, which like Dutch Gold upon Dutch Bread, pleases the Eye of a Child, tho' eaten, it cankers the Guts. Believe me, Abaliza, I grieve to see that honest Heart of yours, give so largely into the way of the World; I once thought you cou'd have scorn'd the name of Sycophant. What can I hope from-A feign'd Behaviour, interrupted Abaliza; it is no more, my Lucy, you are no longer to believe me the Person you seem to fear I am; since I have now the very same generous Sentiments of a sincere and real Friendship, which I had when we last parted, and which I will for ever cherish: but what I said, proceeded from the Bitterness of my Soul, having been very lately used with much Flattery, and much Treachery, by one, whose Gratitude might have taught her a better way of returning a great many Civilities; but as Womens Quarrels are generally too trifling to be entertaining, for that Reason I will wave it: But you desir'd to have the Tale of my Amour, which I will give you at large. That, said Lucy, will be very obliging, because I have hitherto had only an imperfect account of it, and since a Story told by halves occasions nothing but incoherence; I beg you will go quite through with it, that I may hear again as well what I know already, as what I do not. 
Then thus, said Abaliza, I begin: You may remember when we parted we were both very young, and tho' one wou'd think four Years shou'd make no 
[Page 125]
great Alteration, yet it is plain so much Time both buries in Oblivion, and raises standing Monuments of our Actions; the good ones are forgot, or at least never to be mention'd, while our Trips and Mismanagement is register'd in every busy spightful Breast, to be produced in opposition to any little word spoke by chance in your favour: but I lay by all moral Reflections, and come to the Tale. When I had obey'd my Father's Summons, and return'd home from your House, I was, you may remember, about eighteen Years of Age, and had (which is pretty rare) a Heart entirely disengaged from all the foolish Incumbrances which generally attend that time of Life: That is to say, quoth Lucy, you were not in Love, which, considering your Offers, was, I own, a little rare, If you interrupt me, said Abaliza, I shall forget where I left off, and make a Botch of my Story. I was no sooner got home, than I met with such a Reception as an only Child might expect from the Arms of two tender Parents; my Mother was ready to eat me, and wou'd not let me stir out of her sight for many days; she was a Woman of much Prudence and Goodness, one who had always made it her chiefest care to initiate early Principles of Modesty and Virtue into my Breast: and one day as we were sate alone, she said, Abaliza, I am of a weak infirm Constitution, and do believe my days are few on Earth; your Papa may marry again, and you may find some inconveniency in a Step-mother, you have had a great many advantageous Offers made you, and I shou'd face my last hour with great content, cou'd I first see you well disposed of; you are my only Care, and next to your Father, my only Comfort, for you have been my Child these eighteen Years, and to your Face I own, you never disobliged me in your Life. Nor ever will, my dear Mamma, said I; oh! do not tell me of your Death, I hope, and believe you have many happy Years of 
[Page 126]
Life to come, in which, perhaps, I may bring myself to a more favourable Opinion of a matrimonial Life, I think it is a State that requires more Sedateness and Gravity than is usually found in Eighteen; and it is but a melancholy Reflection to a young Breast, to say, it is going to give away all its Pleasure. I do assure you Madam, continu'd I, it wou'd have been more agreeable to my temper, had you injoin'd me to Celibacy for Life; but to shew my Duty to the last, give me but leave to like the Man, and you shall command me in that too. She took me to her Bosom, kiss'd and thank'd me for my Compliance. But while I was reflecting in my own Breast on the Folly of Resolution, which is seldom kept any longer than till we have a strong Temptation to break it, (Nature, my Lucy, will have its swing) my Father came to us, and with him a Something, which was, I fancy'd, design'd for a Man, tho' Nature, to shew us some diversion, and to let us see she can be merry over her own Compositions, had made the thing look like a Creature engender'd betwixt a Monkey and a Dutch Mastiff. His Eyes were red and very small, his Nose-end turn'd up so very erect, that with the help of a good Perspective, one might have made a shift to find the way to his Brains; his Mouth was wide, his Teeth black, his Chaps thin and wrinkled, his Head hung to one Shoulder, his Back was crooked and so were his Legs, a Club-foot, and very ill dress'd. 
Heaven guard us all from Cupid's Bow, said Lucy, I hope you came off Heart-whole; why Æsop was but a puny sucking Monster compared to your, (almost) Devil. Ah my Lucy, reply'd I, were all Objects like this I have described, you might save your Prayers for another Occasion; and yet he had a Wife, a deserving one too. But to go on: After I had taken a cursory Survey of him, bless me, thought I, where has my Father pick'd up this Epitome of Deformity? 
[Page 127]
or has he bought him to make Sport? While I was thus musing, he came forward, and made up to my Mother to salute her, which he did with such an awkard Air, that had not a little good Manners stood close at my Elbow, I had laugh'd in his Face. I expected the next Proof of his Civility wou'd fall to my share, as it accordingly did, and I was kiss'd in my turn. He then commended my Person, asked my Father if I was his Daughter, and whether married: he told him in a jocular way, he was forc'd to own me, but I was too much a Drugg to be disposed of. Oh, said the Beauty, she shall have a Husband, tho' I fetch her one myself. For my part, I was half scared out of my Wits, for fear it was his own lovely Carcass he design'd for me, for I knew not then he was married. He sat a considerable time with my Father, and talked much of things abroad: I must confess, his Discourse put me upon making many inward Reflections on the kindness of Nature, who, often gives the greatest Beauties to the Mind, when she denies them to the Shape and Face. Thus it proved in the Person I am speaking of, who, tho' a most deform'd Creature in his make, had the Charms of a Cicero in his Conversation: and had the Sense of Seeing been lost in his Companions, the Sense of Hearing had been doubly gratified. After a great many good things said, and as well apply'd, he got up and went away; and tho' his great Sense had very much atoned for his ridiculous Out-side, yet I cou'd not forbear being a little merry upon him when he was gone. Sir, said I to my Father, I have often heard that Monkeys can talk if they please, but I never heard any of them speak before; I'll swear this was one of excellent Parts, if the whole Species cou'd but talk like him, methinks 'tis a thousand pities they shou'd ever be silent. Tho' my Father cou'd not forbear laughing at me, he was a little nettled that I had made so free with 
[Page 128]
his Friend, and said-I have often told you, Madam, the visible part of a Man, is the most worthless part of him, unless where Reason and Prudence are wanting; but this Gentleman has as large a share of both, as any body I know, and shou'd for that Cause be treated after a different manner: beside, Gentlewoman, continu'd he, this Person with whom you make so bold, has a Son wou'd set your Invention on the Rack for an Engine to catch him, if you saw him once. I found Papa spoke with some warmth, and was willing to cry Peccavi. I am sorry, Sir, said I, I have displeased you with what I said of the old Gentleman, I was so foolish as to believe he was design'd by Nature for every body's Jest; but I am sure you cannot think me so weak, as to be in any danger of his Offspring, at whom, I dare say, I can look with as much Indifference as I have always done upon the whole Sex beside; and I have seen some, who have pass'd in the World for Men without blemish. I am glad, said Papa, you are proof against Mankind, for none have more Advantages to boast of, than the Son of this Gentleman; and I can assure you, neither your Person or Fortune deserves him. These Words, in spite of my Endeavours to hide my Resentment, brought a Colour into my Cheeks, and I was not able to hinder an inward vexation, at hearing my Father speak so contemptibly of me. I was probably then, one of those foolish Girls who think their Charms irresistible, and that it was impossible for a Man to see, and not to love. Full of those fond thoughts, I resolv'd, tho' it was the first time, to make a Conquest if possible, and in order to it, set my Mother on to find out who this old Gentleman was; but did it without giving her the least cause to suspect the Reason of my Curiosity: she had as great a mind to know as I had; and when they were alone some time after, she asked some Questions accordingly. My Father told her, he was 
[Page 129]
a Person not only of great worth, but Master of a finer Estate than some Noblemen cou'd boast, being possessed of ten thousand Pounds a Year: I knew him, said he, in Spain, tho' he is not of that Nation, he is a Dutch Man born, and his Name is Vanzouch, he married a fine English Lady, who admir'd him for his good Sense and extraordinary Temper; by her he has one Son, who is his only Child, and one of the most accomplish'd Men in Europe: his Lady is now in Holland, to whom he intends to go, in a very little time; he is now at a Relation's House hard by, where he stays to oblige his Son, who of all things loves the Country. This was the Account my Mother got, and which, the first Opportunity, she communicated to me. As soon as I cou'd handsomely disengage myself, I got up to my Chamber, where I sat down to consult with my own thoughts, what Method was to be taken towards seeing this mighty Man of worth: sometimes I hoped, the Husband which the old Man had promis'd to bring me, might prove his Son; but then I consider'd, he was a Father, and as such, wou'd try to make a better Market for him: but then I again consider'd how little my Father's Opinion was of me, and I knew not but he might prize his Son as low, as I was valued as a Daughter; tho' I knew my Father lov'd, nay, doated on me, but it stuck sadly in my stomach that he shou'd think, I cou'd not deserve the Son of that ugly old Man. I was sadly at a loss how to compass a Sight of him, and yet I fear'd to see him too, lest it shou'd prove as Papa had said, and I shou'd want a power to gain a Conquest; and betwixt the hope of his coming, and fear of his not liking me when he did, I gave up my thoughts so entirely to that one Subject, that I grew perfectly mopish, and did not care either to eat or talk. My Father thought I was in the dumps because he had affronted me, but my poor Mamma was anxious for 
[Page 130]
my Health, and fear'd some growing Distemper; for which reason she wou'd fain have sent for Physicians, but I was resolved my Pulse shou'd not come between their Fingers; and cou'd have told her- the Cure of the Mind was not the work of the Doctor: but I kept my own Counsel, which is more than some Women can do, and said it was only a Fit of the Vapours, which wou'd go off with a little time. Vapours! said my Mother, what shou'd vapour you, who never had one Vexation or Disappointment in your Life? I beg, my Abaliza, continu'd she, you will not give way to so much as a thought of that whimsical, tho' modish Distemper; it borders too much upon Sloth, Idleness, and a thousand other impertinent things, which corrupt and spoil the Blood: No Child, you have no such thing, 'tis nought but Fancy, go and take a Walk in the Morning, and try to disperse those melancholy Fumes that disturb you thus, the Air will do you good. Next day I took her Advice, and calling Faddle my Maid, I went attended only by her to take a walk in the Fields: you know Faddle is a good merry Girl, and as we were walking a slow Pace, she thus accosted me. - For the love of Fortune, Madam, what is the matter with you, sure three or four days never brought such a change with them in this World before; Lord, what can you ail? If we had had any young Visiters in that time, I shou'd have thought you had fallen in love; but the duce of any body have we had but old Club-foot, and if you are sick for him, by my troth, Madam, I beg your pardon, but I shall never pity you: tho', continu'd she, I fear Madam, you have got a pain in your Tongue, which is a part of us as seldom disorder'd, as any Member we have. It wou'd be very much for my present ease, reply'd I, if thou hadst a pain in thine too; there is nothing so intolerably troublesome as Impertinence, and I wish you wou'd learn Silence, and 
[Page 131]
meddle with nothing but what concerns your self: By this Answer, Faddle found I had no pain in my Tongue, and she grew very grave upon it. Madam, said she, I am surprized to see you angry at what I said, you used to be pleased with my Nonsense; but I must say, every thing that gives you pain or pleasure, has the same effect upon me; 'tis true, I have taken a little more Freedom than perhaps I ought to have done, but the design was to divert, not vex you; I see you labouring under some lurking Disorder, and wou'd fain remove it if I cou'd; what then have I done to deserve a Reprimand? Or, did I ever make a Breach in that Fidelity I owe you? No, no, said I, it is not in my power to charge thee with any Crime, but I hate to be ask'd Questions which I cannot answer; whatever I ail, is a Secret even to myself; how then shou'd I share it with you? Why really Madam, said the merry Wench, I have often observed the best Expedient for keeping a Secret, is never to know it. With such talk of no consequence we went on, till we had insensibly wander'd almost three Miles, we were got into a very pleasant Close, at the bottom of which, was a fine clear Spring: Here, said I, we will sit down and rest us; which we had no sooner done, than a little Lap-dog came wagging his Tail and fawning to me. Faddle, said I, where are we? I was never thus far in my Life before; we are certainly near some Town or some Company by this pretty Dog, pray let us go back. I know where we are, said Faddle, we are a good way from home, and yonder's a Gentleman looking very earnestly at you, over yon Hedge. Let us away this Minute, said I, putting on my Mask, for Hats were not then in fashion; and as we went, the little Dog follow'd me, and his Master him; I walked as fast as my Legs and Strength wou'd carry me, and wonder'd the Stranger did not call his Dog, who overtook us just as we came to a 
[Page 132]
Stile. Madam, said he, I know not whether I shou'd cherish or chastise my Dog, for drawing me so near an Object worthy of Admiration; but I see by that cruel Cloud, with which you have eclipsed your fine Face, you thought me too happy when I gazed upon it bare. How many Advantages have you Ladies above our Sex, who can screen your Beauties from Sun and Sight, whilst we are forced by Custom to expose ours to both, tho' sometimes, perhaps, we cou'd be glad to hide them? These Words raised my Eyes to the Stranger's Face, which I suppose he expected when he spoke them, and I found him a most complete fine Man. I dare say, Sir, said I, were it the Fashion for your Sex to wear Masks, your Vanity wou'd keep you a good while out on't. Madam, reply'd he, I shou'd keep out of it for ever, durst I hope it cou'd find the means to please you; but till then, 'tis neither worth hiding or exposing. You Men of Gallantry, answer'd I, shou'd never engage with us Country Girls, we know not how to hold discourse with you, but I hope you wou'd not try to persuade me you are in love. Madam, said he, you wrong your own Charms if you doubt it; who can see, and hold from loving? And oh! forgive me, if I beg to know with whom I leave a Heart, always my own, till you by open Force have snatch'd it from me. That's hard indeed, said I; but to let you see my Will was not any way concern'd in the Rapine, it most readily consents to the return of it: I assure you, I do not desire to have the carriage of your Heart, 'tis well if I can take care of my own. Oh! return'd the Stranger, that you wou'd give me leave to construe those Words to my own advantage; but Madam, you have promised more than you are able to perform, you cannot give me back my Heart, it sticks where 'tis, like the Shirt of Hercules, and no power can tear it from you. One wou'd think, answer'd I, you were 
[Page 133]
made of Tinder or Touchwood, you catch fire so soon. And Madam, said he, to carry on your own Simile a little farther, I fear I shall find you too like the Flint and Steel, which give heat, but feel none. I own, his ready Answers and good Sense made me look at him once more; and I believe had our Conversation lasted much longer, I shou'd have wished for a Continuance of it. His Face indeed was faultless, his Shape I cou'd be no Judge of, because he was in a Night-Gown, his Hand was very white and finely shaped, on a Finger of which, he had a very rich Diamond; by which, and his Brocaded Gown, I guess'd him to be a Person of some distinction: but while I was surveying him, Faddle told me the Coach was coming. He then, with an uncommon Accent, begg'd me not to leave him in racking Uncertainty, but give him some Hopes, tho' never so small, that he shou'd see me again. I told him, Extremes never lasted, and he might assure himself, he wou'd find his Cure where he got his Wound; for before he cou'd recover the Place where he first saw me, he wou'd forget he had ever seen me at all. Madam, said he, 'tis greater Cruelty to disbelieve my Love, than to return it with Contempt; for pity's sake-No more, Sir, interrupted I, when I can believe I have Charms to wound at the first sight, I'll fancy all you have said is true; till then, you must excuse me. He was going to reply, when the Coach came up to us, into which I stepp'd and left my Lover. My Mother, who was come her self to look for me, was surpriz'd to see me with a Man, and asked me several Questions about him, to which, I made her very imperfect Answers, tho' all I knew; and as I had told the fine Stranger, so I did myself: for while I was answering my Mother's Questions, I had almost forgot the Subject. My Mother then asked me, if I cou'd give any better Account of myself than I had done of 
[Page 134]
my Spark, how my Walk agreed with me, and if I was pretty well after it? I told her I thought I was after my Walk just as I was before it; and I was very well. But Abaliza, said my Mother, I have a piece of News for you, your Father and I have been laughing at it this Morning: we are to have a Visit this Afternoon, from the ugly old Gentleman and his handsome Son; they sent to know if your Father wou'd be at home, and alone: so if one does not please you, perhaps t'other may. It is not possible, my dear Lucy, to tell you how this News alarm'd me: my whole Fabrick was in a general Disorder; but my Heart had by much the greatest Share: It flutter'd about and cut Capers, as if it were seeking out new Quarters; my Cheeks sometimes glow'd, then turn'd to a livid Paleness, which I wou'd fain have prevented, but 'twas not in my power; my Mother took notice of it, but cou'd not for her Soul tell what to make on't. She thought 'twas impossible I should like the old Man, and the young one I had never seen; in short, every Look was a Riddle to her, and the more she thought, the more she was perplex'd. Faddle's Amazement broke out at her Eyes and Mouth, which were employ'd in staring and gaping at me; and I believe the poor Girl, who had a mighty Notion of Witchcraft, certainly thought I lay under the power of some of that Chimerical Fraternity. We were now gotten almost to our own Gates, when my Father met us, and said, he supposed we had met with good diversion we staid so long: he very ceremoniously handed us out of the Coach, and when we were got in, Now Abaliza, said he smiling, now is the time to guard your Heart; for I can tell you, it will be put to its utmost tryal before Night, and all your boasted Strength will be little enough to defend it. So Mamma tells me, Sir, said I; and if I must encounter this Rarity, I shall the sooner have 
[Page 135]
an Opportunity of shewing you how much I can despise one, who you yourself allow to have so many Charms: But methinks you do not use your poor Daughter well, to suffer her to run into so much danger; especially, when you have told her how superior his Merit and Fortune is to hers. Suppose a Woman's Weakness, Sir, shou'd take place of her Resolution, and I shou'd see this fine Man with your admiring Eyes; how wou'd you extricate your Child from such a Misfortune? Indeed Child, said my Father, you have very justly accused me, and I do own it is not safe to trust a Woman with her Heart: but as I had always a very great Opinion of your Conduct and Prudence, it carried me a Step beyond my own Discretion, and made me consent to let you see a Man, who, in all probability, will make an impression. But it is still in my power to prevent your Fate; and as nothing cou'd touch me more nearly, than to see you unhappy: in pity to us both, I lay my Commands upon you to keep your Chamber till they are gone. Oh! my Lucy, this was what I did not foresee when I was so very pert, and it gave me a fresh cause of Uneasiness: every Word I had spoke, like our greatest Sins, brought a new Occasion for Repentance. What a while had I been wishing for a Day, which no sooner came, than I blasted it by the Wind of a few Words. Nay, Sir, said I, if you ever had a good Opinion of my Conduct, do not cancel it till I give you cause: I beg you will let me see this young Gentleman, if it be but for the Novelty on't: if I make a Conquest, your Daughter is better provided for, than you cou'd expect; and if I do not, I dare venture to promise, the Disappointment shall never hurt Abaliza. Upon that Condition, said Mamma, I dare engage your Father's Consent; but remember, whatever we feel for you, it is you yourself will be the greatest Sufferer. Fear not, Madam, reply'd I, there is a certain thing 
[Page 136]
call'd Pride, which does, or shou'd reign in every Woman's Breast, which will certainly secure both you and myself from Pain; for I shou'd think myself weak indeed, shou'd I give a Heart to one who never offer'd his. 
O Abaliza! interrupted my Father, if that be all your Security, you are but very weakly fortify'd, and talk as if you were a stranger to your own Arguments; either you forget, or you never knew that human Nature has the same ascendant over Women, that it has over Men. 'Tis true, there is a little difference, Women's Constitutions being somewhat colder; but if your Heart should first take fire, you may meet with a great many Precedents of the same kind, which tho' it does not justify you in the same Failing, is still a demonstration that the thing is possible; and for that reason I will think of your own Words, and keep you out of harm's-way. 
Sir, reply'd I, do you call the Coldness of our Constitution a small difference? To me it seems the ultimate Cause of preserving our Honour; for if your Assertion be true, that Nature has the same Ascendant over our Sex, as it has over yours; what can possibly be a better Guard, or Fence against Nature, than a Constitution hedged in by a Wall of Ice? Believe me, Sir, I reckon mine my chiefest Happiness, but you have commanded me to my Chamber, and thither I'll go; come Faddle, let us go up. When I was got to my Chamber, I order'd Faddle to dress me to the very best advantage, and was resolv'd not to omit one Jewel, which I thought cou'd any way add to my natural Charms; for tho' my Father seem'd to threaten I shou'd not see this Wonder of his, I yet hoped his Mind wou'd change, or the old Gentleman wou'd ask for me, or something wou'd happen to bring us together: which fell out better than I expected; for we had spent so much of the Morning abroad, and so much in Disputes 
[Page 137]
at home, and I in dressing, that it was so late before we went to Dinner, the Company came before we had well done, and just as I was going up, Vanzouch came in, and taking me by the Hand, led me to the Dining-Room, where they were to sit: And here, Lucy, I cannot forbear telling thee what an undutiful Slut I was, for I could not forbear laughing in my Sleeve, to think how poor Papa was baulk'd of his Design. However, he with my Mother soon follow'd, but first I had an opportunity of viewing the young one, whose Eyes I met, and found he was as busy inspecting into my Faults, as I was finding out his. I own he had the very Life of a good Face, I mean fine Eyes, he had likewise good Teeth, was very clean, and very genteel; but I had expected so much, that what I saw was nothing at all: And is this, thought I, the fine thing that's to run away with my Heart in spight of itself, and must I be confin'd, for fear of an Antidote against Love? Sure my Father banter'd me all this while, or else he is one of the worst judges of Beauty in the Universe. To what purpose, thought I, have I taken so much pains to dress me, only to show myself to one I hate. I own it vex'd me so to see myself so baulk'd, that it made me very moody, and out of humour, and if a Dutch Doit wou'd have secur'd the old Gentleman's Heir, I wou'd not have made the Purchase. 
After Tea, and Wine, Vanzouch desir'd to go into the Gardens, which he did, and my Father with him; while the young Gentleman stay'd to entertain my Mother and I, but his company grew tedious and tiresome, which made me, for a little Variety, propose going into the Gardens too. Mamma found herself full employ among the Greens and Flowers, which gave my new Spark an opportunity of saying some fine things to me, which must be acknowledg'd, even by me, who cou'd not abide him, was done with very good Address, and had the Speeches he 
[Page 138]
made, come from a Mouth I had lik'd, they wou'd have been equally pleasing; but I was so prejudic'd against him, that every thing he said was insipid and fulsome, but still good Manners oblig'd me to use him civilly, and I thanked him for all he said, tho' I was sure I wanted Merit to deserve it. But hearkye Child, said Lucy, did this Gentleman's fine Estate stand for nothing with you; methinks you might have seen ten thousand Charms in as many Pounds a Year, and the Beauties of one might have atoned for the Defects of the other. Why then, return'd I, by the same Rule I might have marry'd the Father, had he wanted a Wife. No, Lucy, I love a good Estate, but I wou'd have it without such disagreeable Incumbrances: tho' I shou'd not so much have disliked the Man, had he not been praised; for he was neither ugly nor silly, only came short of the Character my Father gave him, and that indeed was his greatest Disadvantage. 
He was going on exceeding fast with his Amour, when the old Gentleman released me, by calling us to come and see the Fountains play; which I was so glad of, that when I had once join'd the Company, I was resolv'd to keep to it for fear of another Attack. Vanzouch made his Visit shorter than we expected, because his Son he said was not well, which I wonder'd at, for he look'd well enough, and I was sure he had Health enough to be very troublesome; but when they were going away, the young one turn'd to me, and with a Look which spoke his Desire,- said, I hope, Madam, if I repeat my Visit, you will not think me Impertinent. Sir, return'd I, a Man must want the discerning Faculty very much, who cannot see whether he is welcome or no; but this is my Father's House, and to him I dare believe you will never be troublesome. This Answer, I had reason to believe gave him some Pain, for his Nose gush'd out with Blood, and he look'd very pale. 'Tis true, 
[Page 139]
I had good nature enough to pity him, and gave him the hearing of a Sigh or two more, without laughing at him. 
My Father and Mother, who knew not the cause of his Disorder, press'd him much to come in again till the Blood was stop'd; but he told them with the highest Despair, he had no mind to preserve it, or if he had, the only way to do so, was to leave that Place. 
My Father at these words gave a sort of a guess how Matters went, and after they had taken Coach, and we return'd in, he said, You see, Abaliza, my Friend Vanzouch has been as good as his Word to you, he promis'd to bring you a Husband, how do you like him? So ill, Sir, reply'd I, that I never liked any body worse; you had raised my Expectations to such a height, that they look'd for nothing less than a Cherubim. I know Beauty always suffers for being praised, and we seldom find it answer its own Character, but this Gentleman's Title to it is so very bad, that I am amaz'd you should ever say he was so much as tolerable. Pray Daughter, said Papa, who do you take this Man for, all this while? Why, Sir, said I, is there any room for Guess? I thought he had undeniably been the Son of Vanzouch. You are mistaken, return'd my Father, he is his Nephew, but not his Son; his Father marry'd the Sister of Vanzouch in Holland, they are both dead, and he has a good Estate. Sure Child, said my Mother, your Lovers make but little impression on your Mind, when you forget 'em so soon. Forget 'em, Madam, return'd I, I do not understand you; to the best of my knowledge, I never saw this Man in my life before, and by what I have seen now, heartily wish I never may again. I find, reply'd my Mother, your Aversion holds, tho' your Memory fails you; for this is the very Gentleman who dangled after you so at the Spaws, last time we were there, and to 
[Page 140]
whom you gave so many gross Affronts, one wou'd think the Man was fond of ill Usage to come any more at you, after the Treatment he met with from you before: but I suppose his Uncle encourag'd him, tho' you are resolv'd, if you can't break the Hearts of your Lovers, you'll break the Neck of their Designs. I wonder you have so perfectly forgot him; for tho' the Small-Pox, and two Years Travel, has made a very considerable Alteration, I can still remember every Feature of his Face, as well as his Air and Mien. Sure Madam, said I, this is not Adrastus, the hated loathed Adrastus, and yet it must be he, by the natural Impulse I had to abhor the Man. 
I thought indeed he spoke as if he imagin'd I knew him, which I took for an Instance of his forward Assurance, tho' to do the poor Man Justice, he was always very obsequious, and perhaps his Humility was a fault in him; for I believe we all like a Man of Spirit, better than a cringing whining Fool, who is always dying, but never dead. 
I find, said my Father, you are old Acquaintance, I thought this had been your first Interview. No, Sir, return'd I, it seems it is not; but tho' it be not the first, I hope it will be the last. Why so, reply'd my Father, if you will oblige me, you must see him again, and like him too. Sir, reply'd I, what I have hitherto been, you shall always find me, a dutiful Child; but beg you will let Reason and filial Pity stand my Friends, and persuade you to expect no more from me than I am able to perform: Impossibilities are out of my reach, and you may as well bid me exist without Breath, or retain Reason without Rest, as give Affection where there is none. 'Tis true, Sir, to oblige you, and ruin my own Happiness, I can easily give my Hand; but Hearts are not at our beck, nor can we dispose of 'em, how, or when we please. And I must own mine has 
[Page 141]
so great an Aversion for Adrastus, that I cou'd with more pleasure tear it from its present Dwelling, than give it as it is to him. 
I once thought, Abaliza, said my Father, you wou'd have been ruled by Reason and me; but I find you grow too like the rest of your ungovernable Sex, and think your own Will your best Adviser. To be govern'd by you and Reason, Sir, said I, is the same thing with two Names, since you never act without the assistance of t'other: But, Sir, I beg you will remember, Reason has very little to do with our Passions, of which I take Love and Hate to be the strongest. And so, said my Father, since we are one, and Reason has nothing to do with your Passions, by your own Civil Argument I have nothing to do with 'em neither. No, Sir, said I, not as far as Reason only is concern'd, but Nature has given you a superior Power over your own Child; and if that Power be not back'd by Love and an indulgent Pity, every wretched Child that falls into contrary Hands, must expect nothing but Misery, unless they happen to have the same taste with an inexorable Father. 
My Mother, who was with us all this while, was not pleased at what I had said to my Father, and with an angry Air, not common to her, bid me, at her Request, or Command, leave the Room: For, continu'd she, how strong soever you may think your Arguments, they are not urged against a fit Opponent; and as Silence wou'd have been an Argument of more Duty, it wou'd have shown more Prudence too. 
Madam, reply'd I, why are you angry at what I have said. I am sorry any Dispute shou'd arise, to give either my Father or you the least Uneasiness; but intreat you both to consider, that where the whole Welfare of our Lives are concern'd, it is pretty hard to be silent. Can that Parent love a 
[Page 142]
Child, that would sacrifice its worldly Happiness to its own Caprice? Beside, what can be more solemn than the Charge given us in the Marriage Ceremony, where we are commanded in the Presence of Heaven to declare we have no Impediment, and can there be a greater, than to give my self to a Man I hate? 
I find, said my Father, (turning the whole Dispute into a little Pleasantry) Abaliza will not be to learn her Lesson when she is married. She has, I find, read Matrimony over; but do not be so alarm'd, I shall always have too tender a Regard for your Satisfaction, to force your Inclinations; and will not fear but Prudence will regulate your Actions, and put you upon consulting your own Good. I hope so too, Sir, said I, and do here in my turn promise, I will never dispose of myself while you live, without your Approbation and Consent; for I can with much more pleasure deny the Man I love, than take the Man I loath. This set all right again, and our warm Contest was at an end. I then went to my own Apartment, as well to think of what had so lately happen'd, as to consider how I shou'd get a sight of this Son of Vanzouch, which at that juncture was the very Work of Life I most wish'd to accomplish. After I had sate musing some time, Faddle, who was with me, thus interrupted my Meditations with the following Impertinence: Madam, there is one thing I am extremely surpriz'd at, said she, which is, that you have never once nam'd the fine Stranger we met with in the Fields since you left him; I waited once on a Colonel's Lady in Flanders, where I had an opportunity of seeing a whole Army sometimes, and may I lead Apes in Hell if ever I saw any thing like him; his Eyes were infinitely more brillant than the Diamond on his Finger; his Forehead, Nose, Mouth, Complexion and Teeth, so fine, so very fine, I have not words to describe them. Then his Hand! O bless me, sure there never 
[Page 143]
was any thing to compare with it, unless the fellow on't? Then he look'd so tenderly, spoke so gracefully, and-Well, my Master may say what he pleases of yon Hedghog's Son, but if he be to compare with him, I'll be bound to live upon Chalk and Oatmeal till I look like a Green-Cheese. Oh! Madam, what would I give to be a fine young Lady with a swinging Fortune for his sake! he should never ask twice, by my troth should he not, I wou'd e'en give him my Hand, and strike up a Bargain at once. 
Your Transport, Faddle, said I, runs very high, I wou'd have you take care of your Senses, tho' you have enough to wish well for yourself, and to see the Perfections of others; for I confess you have only done common Justice to the Gentleman you have described: But prithee Girl, don't fall in love, for fear it shou'd prove a desperate Disease. No, Madam, said Faddle, that wou'd be to lose my Senses indeed, I know a better way of matching his Perfections than that comes so. How! return'd I, you said just now they cou'd not be match'd. Not among his own Sex, reply'd she, nor are there many among ours that can do it; and yet I fancy I cou'd make a shift, without Conjuring, or raising a Fiend, to find out one that would fit like a Tally. Well, go down, said I, for I am sleepy; and when I want you, I will ring. When she was gone, the Stranger came again into my head, and I confess I run over his whole Form with some pleasure, till at last I fell asleep in good earnest; tho' I only design'd it for an Excuse to get rid of Faddle: and whether her Talk, or my own Thoughts, brought him to my Dream, I know not; but I saw him in my Sleep, and fancy'd he gave me a Paper seal'd, and told me his Name was Alcipus; but as I was striving to open it, I awoke and call'd Alcipus. As soon as my Reason was perfectly return'd, I began to think again of this 
[Page 144]
Man: And why, said I to myself, may not this very Man I met be the Son of Vanzouch, his Person answers directly to my Father's Character, and it seems they lodge about the very place where I met him; his Name too may be Alcipus, for any thing I know, and he may at last prove the very Man I have so much wish'd to see. Oh! how I indulged that Thought, and with how much pleasure did I feast my Mind on a Subject that gave me such Content! While I was full of those half-hoping, half-despairing Thoughts, my Mother came to me, and said, she believed Supper was ready; we had some more talk of Adrastus, and she seem'd very much concern'd that I had such an Aversion for him; told me what a satisfaction it wou'd be to my Father and her, if I could but bring myself to hearken to his Addresses. I had so lately had a rough Dispute about him, and had some private hopes that something wou'd soon happen to please me, that I was resolved to play the Hypocrite a little, and told her, I was as sorry as she that I could not like him; but I knew not what Time might do. I did assure her, if it were ever in my power, I wou'd make her happy in disposing of myself to her Liking. But, Madam, continu'd I, so great an Aversion as mine is at present, cannot be worn off of a sudden; I therefore beg a little time, and I'll try what I can do. She, poor Lady, was in Raptures at my Answer, kiss'd me, and took me to her Bosom, and said my Condescension should not go unrewarded. 
When we were at Supper, my dear Papa, willing to let me see he had forgot all that was pass'd, began to rally me about my Dress, said, 'twas pity so much pains shou'd be lost on an old Lover, and one who had swallow'd one Bait already, and had gorged, till he was almost suffocated. Tell me, Abaliza, said he, wou'd you have dress'd, had you known your Visitor? I find, Sir, said I, you have found me out, and 
[Page 145]
therefore I own I wou'd not; for I think it a double Cruelty, to despise a Man, and strive to entangle him more. Dress was design'd for Ornament, and Ornament for an Addition to Nature; but I shou'd think myself very weak to display either, where I was sure the Man wou'd prove my Aversion. Some other talk of this kind ended the Evening, and before I left my Chamber in the Morning, Faddle came to bring me a Letter, which I was in no great haste to open, because I guess'd it came from a Hand which cou'd not greatly recommend it. However I read, as follows: 

MADAM, 
Tho' your parting Words were cold enough to freeze a Man to death, and tho' I saw your Disdain in your Eyes, and persuaded myself to love no more, yet your Charms are stronger than my Resolves; and in spight of all I can do, am forced to beg Relief from one who I fear will never grant it. Yet give me leave, my long adored Abaliza, to see you once more, that I may die at your feet, since that I believe is the only Fate reserv'd for the Wretched. 
ADRASTUS. 
Before I had well done reading it, my Mother came to me, who guess'd as well as I who it came from, and desir'd to see it; which when she had read, she asked me what Answer I wou'd send: I told her, I was not willing to send any. No! said she, have you no pity in you? Yes, Madam, I have pity, and cou'd give it, said I, but I hope you do not think, every whining Love-Letter deserves it; at that rate, I might have been melted into a Jelly of Pity by this time: but since it is easier to pity than relieve, I do not care if (to please you) I say, I do pity him; and 
[Page 146]
as to the Answer, I beg you will please yourself, and send what you think good. While my Mother was gone to the Messenger, I sat fuming in my Chamber, to think how near I was to another Persecution, for I well knew she wou'd encourage him to come again: however I was resolv'd to see him in a grand Dishabillé, and under pretence of a light Indisposition, I went down to dinner undress'd, tho' that spiteful Action brought me as much Repentance as any thing I ever did in my Life. As soon as we had dined, I left the Room, and brim-full of Chagrin at the thoughts of what I was in expectation of, I went into the Garden; where after a turn or two, I saw my Father coming with Adrastus and the fine Man I had met in the Fields. How shall I, my dear Lucy, describe my Confusion, when I consider'd myself quite undress'd? The vexation of that, and the sudden Surprize of seeing the Stranger, whom I did not in the least expect, made a perfect uproar in my Breast; and I stood fix'd till they came to me, and even then was tongue-ty'd, so much was I out of countenance to be catch'd in such disorder. However, I was in great hopes the Stranger wou'd not know me again, having never seen me above once, and then at a distance; for which reason, I was resolv'd to be very civil to Adrastus, and take no notice of him. But I was greatly deceived when I thought he wou'd not know me, for he was as much surpriz'd as I, and stood some time looking full at me; but my Mother's Approach brought us out of our dumps, and we all turn'd about to meet her. The Stranger kept behind with me, and told me in a low Tone, what Obligations he lay under to kind Fortune, who had over-paid all his late Sufferings, by bringing him so accidentally into the Company of the only Person upon Earth who had power to make him happy. I was too well pleased with what he said, to be unmoved at it; but with a guilty Blush, which plainly 
[Page 147]
shew'd my Ignorance was affected, told him I knew not what he meant. He said, he hoped he shou'd find an Opportunity of explaining himself before we parted. Adrastus look'd behind him, and hoped his Friend was imploy'd in his Affair, which was the very thing he brought him for. By this time my Mother and we met, when my Father turning, took the Stranger by the hand, saying, Alcipus, this is my Spouse; and Madam, said he to my Mother, this is the Son of my Friend Vanzouch. These Words were no sooner out of my Father's mouth, than they ran thrilling to my Heart, and met with a Medley of Joy, Hope, Despair, and I know not what; yet did I govern my Passion, and manage it so dext'rously, that none cou'd perceive the least Alteration in me, tho' my Father watch'd my Looks, and so did my Mother too: I must own it was a Master-piece, and I never got the better of myself so cleverly before. Compliments paid and received on both sides, I saw Adrastus, who was afraid of losing time, make a sort of a Sign to Alcipus, when he singled me out, and led me to a Walk separate from the rest of the Company. This gave my Heart a new and greater Agitation than before; for I guess'd the Truth, when I fancy'd Adrastus had employ'd him in his Affair, and instead of himself wou'd have interceded for him: but still I remember'd the last Words of Alcipus, and hoped when he found he cou'd not prevail for one, he wou'd try what cou'd be done for t'other. I have often heard that Silence in Love is a very great Argument of its Violence; and that of Alcipus continu'd so very long, that I began to fancy he had forgot the Lesson Adrastus had taught him; or, (which was infinitely more pleasing) that he was studying one of his own. In short, both our Mouths were stopp'd during the length of a long Walk, at the end of which, was a very pleasant Summer-House, where we went and sat down; when Alcipus thus began. So long a Silence, 
[Page 148]
Madam, where a Man has so fine a Subject to discourse upon, must be a certain Sign of a Breast fill'd with Perturbation and Distress: I own I have undertaken a Work, which, by all the Laws of Honour and Friendship, I think myself obliged to the utmost of my power to go through with it: but oh! while I am doing for my Friend, I am undoing myself, and our State is so perfectly wretched, that if either rises in your favour, the other must inevitably perish: So unhappily, oh! so unhappily are we both taken in the same Toil. 
If my Favour, Sir, said I, is likely to be so very pernicious, I shall take much care how I bestow it. For your part, Sir, you are too young an Acquaintance to be in any danger; and for your Friend, you must be pleased to explain yourself a little farther, before I can say any thing to the matter. Then, Madam, return'd he, Adrastus, the happy Adrastus, has prevail'd with me (tho' perhaps he wants not one) to be his Advocate; I own my ignorance in the Affair, was as great as my Desire to do him good; for I little knew, I was going to beg that for another, which I languish and die for myself: but my Word is pawn'd for my Performance, and now what follows, is in behalf of him. I confess, Sir, said I, Adrastus was both in the right and the wrong when he employ'd you: he doubtless knew he had a much better Orator to tell his Tale, than he can any way pretend to be himself, and durst not trust his own Eloquence, so far he was in the right; but the very next step shews his Weakness, when he seems not to consider the disadvantage of sending a Man to promote his Amour, who is so much his Superior in every thing. Those Words were no sooner spoken, than repented of, for I thought them a great deal too plain, and therefore to bring myself off, went on thus: For tho' we may see Perfections in a second Person, without growing fond of 'em; we are sometimes 
[Page 149]
apt to despise the Principal for want of 'em: but I own, Adrastus is a Man of some Merit, and has my Father and Mother both of his side; but for my own part, I must know him better before I encourage him, since I have often observed, precipitate Weddings are unhappy, for want of a thorough Inspection into each other's Temper; for while People are young and in love, they have no room to shew ill-nature; but a few Years over, and the Affairs of Life thrusting in, then it is that Humours display themselves, and the unhappy Pair have no other Musick, than jangling and discord. 
Madam, said the complaisant Alcipus, you shoot with bearded Arrows, and wound past hope of cure; such good Sense and so much Prudence, join'd to your outward Form, must needs be irresistible to all but the Deaf and Blind: poor Adrastus, may well love; but poor Alcipus, may still despair. I cou'd have told him he ly'd, if I had pleased, but I found he was pretty safe, and resolv'd to let him live in (what he was a Stranger to in every thing else) Ignorance, and proposed going to the Company. He grew pale at what I said, and thought (as he told me afterwards) I cou'd no longer stay from Adrastus; but if I was not in haste to go to him, he was so to come to me; for before Alcipus cou'd say any more, we saw him coming towards us. Alcipus got up first, and said, I am too sensible, Madam, of the Injury I have done the thrice happy Adrastus, in robbing him of your Company so long, let us walk fast and meet him, that we may redeem as much of your lost time as we can. I was so well pleased to see Alcipus grown jealous, that I walked a good round Pace to improve it: we no sooner met, than he, betwixt Anger and Design, gave my Hand to Adrastus, saying, Here, happy Adrastus, take that Hand which you alone deserve. These Words confounded the poor Man, which I saw by his Looks, and he was 
[Page 150]
strangely at a loss how to take them: however, he made no scruple of the Hand that he willingly embrac'd; and when he had approach'd me with that awe, so natural to a despairing Lover, he said, How happy, Madam, has my Friend been all this while, and what an age of Pleasure have I lost, by employing another in my grand Concern! 
Sir, said I, you shou'd learn of the Fox, who always thinks himself the best Messenger; but you may venture to believe me, when I say you are no loser by yours. At that Word I snatch'd my Hand from him, and turn'd to look for Alcipus, whose quiet, I had more than a common concern for, and saw him walking back to the Summer-House where we had been sitting: I was resolv'd I wou'd not lose his Company quite, and therefore call'd to tell him his Father was just come, who I saw with mine at the side of the Canal. He turn'd at my call, and came towards us, but I left 'em both, and went to the rest, they follow'd, and we all join'd Company; after which, we had no other Discourse than what concern'd the Publick. Adrastus talk'd more, and better than I had ever heard him before; so much did a little groundless Hope raise his Spirits: but poor Alcipus was dumb as a Statue, said not one Word with his Tongue, tho' his Eyes were full of tender Language, which mine wou'd fain have answered, had I not by main Force restrain'd them, and wou'd not suffer 'em to cast a look that way; which pleased the Man I much despised, and mortified him I began to love. His Father came to him, and ask'd him why he was so silent; he said, he was not well: which Answer disturb'd the old Gentleman, and made him shorten his Visit, and they all went away together; but as they were going, whether by Accident or Design I knew not, Alcipus dropp'd his Handkerchief, which after the other two were got into the Coach, he came back for, and took it up just at my foot. Madam, 
[Page 151]
said he, I told you in the Garden, my business here, was to speak for my Friend, but without you are pleased to send some better Encouragement, I shall have but a poor Account to give him of my Negociations. This I knew he said to sift my Inclination, and was resolved to raise his Jealousy a Peg higher; in order to which, I bid him tell Adrastus, I thought him so very much improved in his common Conversation, that I fancy'd next time he made love, he might venture to tell his own Story. However, Sir, said I, advise him from me, to send you no more of his Errands. This he knew not what to make of, but with a languishing Look and jantee Bow, he took his leave. They were no sooner gone then my Father began again to be merry about my Dress, and pleased himself mightily to see how I was baulked. Fortune, said he, has really dealt very unkindly with you, to suffer you to entertain the fine Alcipus in a Dishabillé: well, but by the way, how do you like him? I own, Sir, reply'd I, he is a good clever Man, but I do assure you, Faddle need not secure my Garters, for I shall never grow desperate for him. No, said my Mother, I hope you have more Wit than to give away your Heart, till you know upon what terms: but what ground has Adrastus gain'd, does he stand any fairer in your Esteem than he did yesterday? No, truly Madam, reply'd I, it is not very likely he shou'd, I don't see how he can expect to improve any body's Opinion of him, while he is such a Fool to carry Alcipus about with him: other People chuse to pick up somebody less agreeable than themselves to pass for a Foil; but he, a Wise-acre, came to be one himself. My Mother shak'd her Head, and left us to go and give order for Supper; while I went up to my Chamber to think of poor Alcipus, whom I had sent away in such doleful dumps: but Faddle came to me very big with her Perquisites, and said, she had got Gold in 
[Page 152]
both hands; and pray, said I, who has given you most, for by that I shall know who you will stickle for hardest. Nay, Madam, said she, Mr. Adrastus was most generous, but I shou'd be a Fool if I spoke for him, for two Reasons, one is, because I like the t'other better; and the next is, I am sure you do so too: and what signifies speaking against one's Conscience, when it will do the poor Gentleman no good? Oh! yon Mr. Alcipus is a fine Man, and I stood at a Window when you were in the Garden, and he did so ogle, and so leer, and so stare-well, I hope to Goodness, he's in love with you, Madam, and then I'faith we have fitted my Master. 
I think the Wench is mad, said I; thy Gold has set thee a chattering like a provoked Monkey, I cannot digest my own thoughts for thee. O Madam, said the pert Gypsy, if you have forgot what you were thinking of, I dare say I can tell you: but I hear a sad bustle below stairs, I'll run and see what's the matter. As she was going down, she met one of the Footmen on the stairs, coming to call me to my Mother, who was taken suddenly ill. I ran down with the utmost precipitation, and found her in a strong Convulsion in my Father's Arms; we sent away with all speed for Physicians, and got her to her Chamber and Bed. The Doctors came, and found her very weak, insomuch, that we had no cause to expect her Recovery. I sate up with her all Night, and in every interval from pain, she repeated those kind good Admonitions, which were always part of her Conversation when we were alone. Abaliza, said she, that grand Opposite to Life, stands ready to part us; and it is my greatest earthly Comfort, that I leave you in the hands of so good a Father: next to Heaven, shew your Obedience to him; let Virtue stamp your Actions, and Prudence coin your Words; and if you wou'd shew a Tenderness for my Memory, 
[Page 153]
do it by a daily remembrance and practice of the Counsel I always gave you. 
My Tears were the best Representatives of my wounded Heart, which wept Blood for the Agonies of so dear, so tender a Parent. I begg'd she wou'd believe my Endeavours shou'd always be to follow her Rules, and that nothing shou'd make me deviate from them. My weeping Father, who cou'd rest no where, came from his Bed to see how she did, which was a very timely Visit; for he had no sooner sat down by her, and enquir'd after her Health, than she catch'd his Hand, gave it a dying gripe, and seized with another Fit, expir'd in his Arms! Here was one Parent irrecoverably gone, and the other I fear'd making all the haste he cou'd after her, for he fell into a cold Sweat, and then fainted quite away. I leave you, my Lucy, to judge what a miserable plight I was in: I was forced to leave sorrowing for my dear Mother, in order to comfort a distracted Father, whose Grief had got the better of him so far, that for some days he wou'd not suffer me to speak to him, nor any body else to come near him; but conquering Time, tho' he cou'd never wholly remove, began to mitigate his Grief. And after the Funeral was over, and things a little settled; Faddle came to me, and said, she had a Letter for me, which had been in the House some days, but seeing me in such trouble, she had laid it in my Dressing-Room, and forgot it till then. 'Tis no matter, said I, you may lay it there again if you will, for I am not dispos'd for Impertinence, (supposing it came from Adrastus.) She did as I bid her, and there it lay till next Morning; and as I was going to dress my Head, I cast my Eye towards the Sash, and saw it lie; but soon perceived it was not his hand: which rouzed my Curiosity, and taking it up, I found it from a much greater Favourite, in these Words. 

[Page 154]

To complain, dearest Abaliza, when a Man has no hopes of Pity, is an Instance of the greatest Weakness; but who can bear the Misery of the Mind, without continual Sighs, or to whom shou'd we apply for Cure, but to those who have it in their power to give it? A whining Lover is such a despicable Animal, that I shou'd blush to tell myself, I was one of that number, did not the Object of my Wishes excuse the Failing; but to see and hear you without the greatest Emotion, is confessing an Insensibility, infinitely more contemptible. I pity poor Adrastus, because I know your Power, but he, alas! gives ground, and has drop'd those Hopes which I wou'd fain have taken up, but found them not worth stooping for, being so very weak, 'tis no wonder they expired: then since he has resign'd, what Injury can I do him, if I offer a Heart wholly yours? the least Line of Encouragement from your dear Hand, will give the highest Content to your Disconsolate 
ALCIPUS 
When I had read this Letter, I had all the uneasiness in the World upon my Spirits: I consider'd Alcipus, as one, whose Person, Sense and Fortune might have commanded almost any Woman in the Nation, and consequently not to be used, either with Contempt or Ill-manners, and to keep his Letter so long in my hands without taking notice of it, was both in a high degree. He, on the other hand, resolv'd, whatever he felt, to write no more; but all my hopes was, that when he heard of my Mother's Death, he wou'd impute my Silence to that Cause: however, I took my Pen, and thus excused myself. 

If I have made a Breach in that good Manners, which ought to be shown by every body to a Man of your Merit; I beg you will think it the effect of my late Distraction, 
[Page 155]
which hinder'd me from opening your Letter till this Day. A Person of so much Worth as Alcipus has to boast, commands a Welcome every where; and I hope it will make no Fraction in Modesty, if I say you shall find one from 
ABALIZA. 
Now, said Lucy, if I may speak my mind, I think it did make a Fraction in Modesty, to bid a Lover come and welcome, whom you had never seen above once or twice. 
Pugh, return'd I, the worst you can make of it, is, that I was a little too forward; but I liked the Man and his Circumstances, I did not know how soon his Father might force him away, and was resolv'd a little trifling Decorum should not part us for ever; I therefore seal'd my little Epistle, gave it to a servant, and bid him deliver it with care and Secrecy, as directed: but as he was going, he met Vanzouch and his Son coming to see, and take their Leaves of my Father, who had never stir'd out of his Chamber since my Mother died. The Servant convey'd the Letter into the hand of Alcipus, and return'd back to tell us they were coming. I went to let my Father know, who had seen no Company, nor desired any; but Vanzouch being an old Friend, and one he always loved, he order'd me to wait on him up-stairs, when they came in. Alcipus desir'd to stay below till the melancholy Scene was over betwixt the two old Gentlemen. I conducted one to my Father, and return'd to the other, who was resolv'd to lose no time, now he had so fair an Opportunity. 
I have, Madam, said he, (pulling out my Letter) a very considerable Favour of yours to acknowledge; but it was so long before it came, that my Impatience grew desperate, and your Silence was so intolerable, that I push'd my Father's Inclinations forward of going to Holland, to which place we are 
[Page 156]
preparing to go in two days; but Abaliza, dearest Abaliza, if you encourage my stay, I shall yet find means to retard a Journey which nothing but the fear of your Unkindness made me hasten. Sir, reply'd I, you are now to believe me a Person under so grand a Concern for my unspeakable loss, that I am not qualify'd for such Conversation as you ought to be entertain'd with; besides, I know not well what you mean by Encouragement, I fear that Paper in your hand has given you more than I can answer to discretion; but it was writ without thought, and sure you wou'd not have me say I love you at the second or third Interview. No, Madam, return'd he, that wou'd be to kill me with too much Joy; say but you hate me not. Hate you, Sir, reply'd I, your opinion of yourself is very humble, if you suppose any body can hate you; but I have been taught such a different way of Behaviour to my Fellow-Creatures, that I can without a blush tell you, I do not hate. Not to hate, said he, is the first step to Love, I have trod the whole Path since I knew you, and am now at the end of my Journey, tho' my Tongue has not yet play'd half its part, for I have ten thousand things to say, wou'd time lend a helping hand: I know, Madam, where there is much to spare, a great deal of Ceremony is generally expected; but as it is, unless you break thro' your own wise Rules, of being long acquainted before you marry, we shall never be happy together, for my Father will be, I know, for hurrying me away, and then, Abaliza, we are parted for ever. You have too many Charms, to want millions of Persuasions to marry, and before I can have an opportunity of coming to you again, some happy Man steps into my place, and robs me of all I ever did, or ever shall hold dear. Not, said I, if I promise he shan't. 
Ah! my Abaliza, return'd he, a Woman is naturally weak, and to keep a Promise requires a steady, 
[Page 157]
strong Resolution; when a fine Man, surrounded with Fortune, and other agreeable Qualities, comes to lay himself at your feet, and address with powerful Rhetorick, you'll soon forget you ever promised me, and so I am lost in the midst of my own Security. 
I think, Sir, retorted I, you are pretty safe for that, because you do not seem to have any Security at all; your Sex is so very civil to ours, that the only things you allow us perfect in, is Levity, Vanity, Dress, and now and then a little Beauty; but to let you see how industrious I am to secure you from broken Vows, I will never make you any, and then you will be sure that I at least shall never deceive you; be assur'd, there are none more cautious of making Promises than I am, but when I have made them, I have a Soul very capable of keeping them. You seem a little ruffled, Madam, said he, that I have suspected you cou'd be guilty of a Weakness you can resist; but I intreat you to consider, it was the dreadful Apprehensions of my own eternal Uneasiness which has been the Cause. Oh! Abaliza, I cannot live without you, and therefore beg you will pardon every wild Expression which the violence of my Passion forces to my Tongue. 
The effect of Love, said I, is always to be pardon'd, where we are convinc'd it is so; but I have known some Men of your Age and Gallantry, who have kept one Speech like a standing Dish, to be served up to every Female they converse with. Now, how shall I be sure from so slender an Acquaintance, you are not one of those? There is one sure way, return'd he, to be convinc'd; which is, to give me leave to provide a Licence and a Minister against tomorrow morning, and then we will put it out of our own power to deceive each other. That, said I, is a sure way indeed; but Alcipus, you have a Father to please as well as I, and till he consents, I 
[Page 158]
ne'er must call you mine; I will not say, you have no Attractives to draw a weak Woman's Heart, but that State for Life is what we all wish may be an uninterrupted one, which it cannot be while we have a Father's Frown; dissipate that Cloud, and perhaps you may meet with no difficulty. 
While we were thus employ'd, entertaining one another, the old Gentleman above did not know what might be transacting below, and therefore cut his Visit off in the middle, to come and see what was become of his Son, who he expected wou'd have come up to him. He told my Father, he believ'd Company was rather troublesome than entertaining, and his time in England so very short, that he had very little to spare; so took his leave, and came down souce upon us, when we had not the least expectance of him: but as it happen'd, I had just taken my hand from Alcipus, and left my seat in order to ring for Tea, when the old Gentleman enter'd the room. I thought, Son, said he, we shou'd have had your Company above-stairs, but I confess, a fine young Lady is much more entertaining than a couple of old Men. Sir, reply'd Alcipus, the Respect we owe the Fair-Sex, makes me join in your Opinion; but had I been intirely alone, I shou'd rather have chosen to stay here, than have gone up where there is nothing to be heard but Sighs and Complaints. Well, Sir, said Vanzouch, are you for going? and pray order your Servants to get your things ready for your Journey to-morrow. To-morrow, Sir, said Alcipus, (with some Astonishment) I thought we had three days to prepare. You thought amiss, said old Gravity; then turn'd to take his leave of me, wishing me Health, Happiness, and a good Husband, which he was just going to take from me. Aye, but said Lucy, if you let him go, you quite spoil your Tale. That, reply'd I, you will hear more of presently. Alcipus, by his Father's Example, came to take his 
[Page 159]
leave of me too, and whisper'd, I shou'd hear from him soon. When they were gone, I went up to my afflicted Father, who, with much ado, I persuaded to leave his dismal dark Dwelling; and to divert him a little, gave him an account of all that had pass'd betwixt Alcipus and myself. He commended me much for refusing to marry him without his Father's Consent, but seem'd to take the whole Scene for no more than a little Gallantry. I find, Sir, return'd I, your Opinion of my Power is still very low; however, I hope, when 'tis ask'd, you will not deny your Consent. No, Abaliza, reply'd my Father, if no Consent but mine be wanting, you may be sure I shall not stick out. 
Next morning before my Eyes were open, Faddle came to my Bed-side with another Letter, which I doubted not came from Alcipus; but when open'd, was subscrib'd by Adrastus. Good Heaven! said I, throwing away the hated Paper, is there no end of my Persecution? and will this slighted Wretch pursue his own Contempt for ever? Take it down, said I, and give it to the Bearer, with only this Answer, that he is too troublesome. Madam, said Faddle, you may as well read it now 'tis open'd, for he will suppose you have. So much the better, Fool, said I, the slight will be the greater to send it back; no, if for no reason, but because he has baulked my Expectations, I will not touch it. Nay, reply'd Faddle, I believe you thought it came from another hand; but Madam, if you will not read it yourself, shall I? The Author, return'd I, is so very indifferent to me, that so I can be excused myself, I care not who reads it. She then read, as follows: 

How cruel is an eternal Separation to a Soul that loves, that doats like mine? yet it is what I must feel, what I must ever bear; nor can I blame you, lovely Abaliza, your Eye is too nice, too delicate to be 
[Page 160]
pleased with my rough Form. Oh! that it had been cast in a finer Mould, that I might have darted Rays like a God, or, with the happy Alcipus, been all Perfection! But in the midst of such despair, I forget I am writing for him: the Misfortune of a Fall, having made him uncapable of doing the grateful Work himself. He bids me say, (oh! cruel Command) he dies with impatience to see you; and since I must fall where he rises, I will submit and die in Silence, to let you see, there never was a more generous Lover, or a more generous Rival, than the abandon'd, wretched 
ADRASTUS. 
Pray Madam, said Faddle, (when she had done reading this melancholy Billet) is not this Mr. Adrastus very silly, to write Love-Letters for other Folks to his own Mistress? No, said I, not at all, he knows his own Hopes are sunk, and it wou'd be the highest ill-nature in the World to refuse serving my Friend, when it cou'd do myself no hurt: but I am really touch'd at the Letter, and must own I feel some pain for the unhappy Author, who certainly deserves my pity, and I wou'd do any thing for him, but take him for Life; which is the only thing can work his Cure. I then sent Faddle down to enquire after Alcipus, who brought the following Account; That as they went home, the Horses ran away and overturn'd the Coach, which had sprain'd his right Arm a little, but it wou'd be well again in two or three days. Since the Accident was so favourable, I cannot say I was very sorry for it, because it put a stop for some time to the intended Journey of Vanzouch. I soon acquainted my Father with all, and shew'd him the Letter I had from Adrastus, which I as soon repented of; for his Mind being soften'd by his own great trouble, every trifle impress'd it a-new, and I saw him drop a Tear, which mov'd me exceedingly. Abaliza, said he, you have used this poor Gentleman 
[Page 161]
with much cruelty and barbarity, how can you do so? Sir, return'd I, the first thing Reason teaches us, is Self-preservaiton; and tho' I have all the pity in the World for the poor Man, I cannot persuade myself to purchase his ease at the expence of my own; there is nothing in Life so impertinent as the offer of a Heart, when one does not care to accept on't. Beside, Sir, you have forgot you gave your Consent to Alcipus. Ah! Abaliza, return'd my Father, you are young and sanguine, and your Hope gallops when it shou'd only go a foot-pace: Alcipus has seen a great deal of the World, has been a general Worshipper at the Shrine of Beauty too long to cast Anchor in your Harbour at last: 'Tis true, you are my only Child, and my whole Estate is yours, which will entitle you to a Gentleman of an easy Fortune, but you are to consider, Vanzouch has an Estate which may command most of the greatest Fortunes in England, especially if we account for his Son's personal Merit, so that all things consider'd, I wou'd not have you make your self sure, of what in all probability may never fall to your share; beside, you have (which of all things pleases me) most generously refused to marry him without his Father's Consent, and believe me, dear Abaliza, he will never give it; I know him too well to expect such a piece of imprudence from him; he does not see you with his Son's Eyes, supposing the latter to be real in his Amour, and doubtless whenever he disposes of him, it will be to a Fortune very superior to yours. This sententious Speech of my Father's, which was grounded upon so much Reason, gave me the Vapours for two whole days, in which time, I heard no otherways from Alcipus, than by word of mouth from the Servants, who went to enquire in my Father's Name after his Health. The next Night, as we had just done Supper, I saw one of the Servants lighting some body in, which prov'd to be Alcipus. I own I 
[Page 162]
was glad to see him in a Condition to go abroad, and I believe I told him so, I am sure Papa did. He said he had made an Excursion that Evening, his Father (who thought him in Bed) being engag'd with Company; and ask'd my Father, if he spent an hour with him and his fair Daughter, whether it wou'd not be troublesome. No, Sir, said Papa, the Son of Vanzouch shall never want a Welcome where I command; but I intreat you will not take it ill, if as a Father, I enquire a little into your Design. I am glad, Sir, said Alcipus, you have open'd a way for declaring myself, such an Opportunity is very acceptable, and you shall find I will answer you with Candor and Sincerity; Know then, Sir, I love your Daughter more than Life, and when I cease to do so, I must cease to breathe: She is the very center of my Wishes, and to possess her, would finish all my earthly Desires. I confess, Sir, said my Father, you do my Girl an Honour which she cou'd neither expect or deserve, and I think myself obliged to thank you for it, both in my own Name and hers. But, Sir, you have a Father to please, and one who is too much valued by me, to wound him in so tender a part: I therefore entreat you, to break off this unequal Amour, till you have try'd how far he will consent to it. Alcipus said, he had hitherto been so happy, as never to have disobliged his Father in his Life, not even in the most trifling action; and, continu'd he, so much Goodness has rewarded my Duty, that he never contradicted any thing I desir'd: 'tis true, this one Affair is of greater consequence than all the rest put together; but as I have many Reasons to believe he will always study my Happiness, I can never fear he will do any thing to make me for ever wretched, as his denial now must certainly do. I own, I have never yet urged it to him, because I was not sure of Abaliza's Heart; but whenever I do, I shall be in no pain for fear of his refusing to comply. 
[Page 163]
While we were thus discoursing, an Accident happen'd, which might have been fatal to me, had not Alcipus been present. We had a very fine Setting-Dog which went mad, and being so very good in his kind, we thought it a pity to hang him, till we had endeavour'd for his Cure. My Father, who was, you know, Justice of the Peace, was call'd out to some Fellows who had taken a High-way Man, and he was no sooner gone, than Setter, who had gnaw'd his Halter, came into the Parlour and fasten'd on my Cloaths: O! cry'd I, Setter's mad, and he will kill me! At which Alcipus drew his Sword, and catching hold of the Dog's Neck behind, ran it down his Throat. This over, he again assumed his former Discourse, and entertain'd me with the irresistible Charm of fine Sense, upon a Subject, which I cou'd not help being pleas'd with. But the Evening was now far spent, and a late Hour made him think of returning home; but before we parted, he promis'd to see me again next day. I wonder, said I, how you contrive to keep your Father off his intended Journey, is he not in haste to be gone? No, reply'd Alcipus, not while I complain of pain, which I shall do longer than I feel it, because 'tis gone already; but to leave my Abaliza, wou'd not only open old Wounds, but make a new incurable one, in that Heart, which she alone commands. No more of this, return'd I, an obsequious Lover seldom fails to make an imperious Husband and I wou'd not lessen my good Opinion of you; so go home while you are well. 
Next day, instead of Alcipus, I had an Epistle from him in these Words. 

I Fear my dearest Abaliza has not love enough to blame me for my Breach of Promise; but know, my Fair, it is occasion'd by the Illness of a Relation, who has sent for us, and designs Adrastus and I, for his Heirs. Thither 
[Page 164]
am I forced by my Father, to take possession of what I wish had gone with him to his Grave, rather than rob me one Moment of your dear Company, which I prefer to all the Wealth of Peru. When I may hope for a Sight of my adorable Abaliza again, I know not, our return being so uncertain; but beg you will not deny me a Line by the Bearer, to live upon till that happy time comes; and oh! forget not your faithful 
ALCIPUS. 
I must own to you, the satisfaction of Alcipus was grown so dear to me, that I was not long considering whether I shou'd gratify his Request or no, but went to my Dressing-Room, and writ thus: 

I Always took Alcipus for a Man of too much Sense, to prefer a Pebble to a Pearl, a Woman's Company to a good Estate; but I know not how you have manag'd it, methinks it is now my Interest to believe all you say, since to be deceived wou'd shew me too credulous, and you too much-but I'll suppose neither; a happy Security gives Peace, while a foolish Suspicion destroys it. Be careful of yourself, for your own sake, if not for that of 
ABALIZA. 
This Letter I dispatch'd away with the Messenger, and waited with some impatience for the return of my Alcipus; which was sooner than I expected: for the sixth day after he went, I was in the Garden, where I spent most of my time; and in all probability my thoughts were employ'd about him, because I had his Letter in my Hand, and being alone, and (as I thought) out of every body's hearing, with an unusual Transport, I said,-Dear Alcipus, did you but know my impatience to see you, sure you wou'd make more haste. I just then turn'd the corner of the Walk, and before I was aware, 
[Page 165]
found myself in the Arms of Alcipus, whose present Joy hurried him to greater Liberties than he had ever taken before. Good Heaven! how was I abash'd at such a sudden Surprize; I held down my Head to hide my Blushes, and my Tongue had no more motion than that of a Mute: In short, my Confusion was so great, to be catch'd with his Letter in my Hand, and such Words in my Mouth, that I was only the Representative of a well-made Statue. He saw my Concern, yet cruelly went on thus-And Abaliza, dearest Abaliza! did you but know how much I have suffer'd for want of thy dear Company, thy pity wou'd take place, and thou wou'dst own my Crime has been my Punishment; and were it not for thee, thou dear Preserver of my Life, I should have sought that Death, which I only shunn'd for thy sake. I consider'd it was now too late to dissemble, since my Tongue had made such an open Confession of my Heart, and I took Courage and look'd up, when I saw Alcipus in deep Mourning, and his Face as white as his Linnen. Defend me, said I, what is the matter with you? and for whom do you mourn? I fear, for somebody nearer than the Relation you mention'd in your Letter. Oh! my Abaliza, said he, I have such a Story to tell thee, as will make thy tender Heart bleed at thy Eyes; but wrap it up in a Case of Adamant, lest it melt away as I tell my dismal Tale. Support my trembling Limbs, said I, and let us retire to a resting-place, where we may sit, for you have something in your Look foretells a storm of Sighs. When we were sate, Alcipus thus began. As soon as I had sent away that happy Paper, which I saw just now in your Hand; I waited for the return of the Messenger, half hoping for, half-despairing of an Answer. My poor Father, not suspecting what I staid for, edging me on to make more haste: at last he came, and with him that dear Pledge, which next to thee, I have reserved 
[Page 166]
as my chiefest Good; I had then what I wish'd for, and was as soon ready as the rest. The Road we had to go was so rocky, it wou'd not admit of a Coach, for which Reason we were forced to mount our Horses; we set forward in an ominous Minute, and rid hard for some hours, till we came to a Forest within three little Miles of the Town we were going to, at which time we were set upon by ten Rascals on horseback, who demanded our Purses; we were not much more than half the number, my unhappy Father, the most unfortunate Adrastus, three Servants, and myself. I found our Men look'd with good Resolution, and only expected their Chiefs to show an Example of Courage, which, I confess, pleased me so well, that I began the Onset myself; but while two of the Villains kept me in play, the rest attack'd poor Adrastus, who drop'd from his Horse, shot quite thro' the Body; he lived to say-Without Abaliza, Death is welcome, they have finish'd her Cruelty, and dispatch'd a Heart which needed no Wound but what she gave it. This said, he died, and left me in such Trouble, that I had almost forgot where I was; till looking up, I saw some of the Rogues about my Father, while our Men had slain four of them: this sight gave me new Resentment, and I flew to his Rescue with the utmost speed, where I got him out of their hands, but must have fall'n myself (tho' we had reduc'd their number to our own) had not kind Fortune sent some other Passengers that way, the sight of which made them scower. We had a mind to pursue them, but as I turn'd to hear how my Father approv'd of our Design, I saw him fainting, and ready to fall from his Horse; we took him off, and found he was wounded in his Thigh, which bled exceedingly; I sent a Servant full speed to the Town, who return'd with a Surgeon, and Conveniencies to carry him and the dead Adrastus to our Relation's 
[Page 167]
House, where we were all going. As soon as we got in, my Father was put to Bed, and his Wound was searched, and found mortal, being in the great Artery: next day he fell into a high Fever, and towards Evening, expir'd. But an hour or two before he died, he call'd me to him, and desiring to be private, he made me kneel down by his Bed-side, and thus he spoke: My beloved Alcipus, you have in all things, from your Cradle to Manhood, been a most dutiful Child to me, and I hope you have always found me an indulgent Father to you; and I now enjoin you, with my last Breath, as you will answer it to Duty, and by all the Ties of Filial Affection, to tell me, without reserve, whether you love Abaliza? I was strangely alarm'd at that Question, because I sadly fear'd his dying Commands wou'd have been to desist: Nay, continu'd he, do not seem surpriz'd, for I have often thought you look'd upon her with a Lover's Eye, tho' I never charged you with it before. Oh! my dearest Father, said I, (bathing his cold clammy Hand with my Tears) for the sake of those Joys in Heaven you are now going to, do not rob me of all on Earth I am capable of knowing; I do love Abaliza, more than Life, or any worldly Good; yet, if you command me to see her no more, I will obey, but never can survive my own Resolution; for I alas! have no choice, but Death or Abaliza. Alcipus, return'd my poor dying Father, I always study'd your Satisfaction, while I lived, and Heaven forbid I shou'd strive to make you wretched at my Death; 'tis true, her Fortune cannot answer yours; but she is, I own, a Woman of Merit, and may a mutual Love, and Endeavour to please, make you both happy. How shall I tell thee, my Abaliza, the transporting Sound those words had in them: just when I expected the killing Command of Separation, to hear the good old Man bless me with a dying Consent, 
[Page 168]
was such a Regale to my sick Hopes, that I feel the healing Balsam still, and yet such Goodness added a thousand Pangs to my just Concern for so kind a Father; who, some Minutes after, was snatch'd with a powerful force from my Arms for ever. We bury'd him and poor Adrastus close together, who in the Struggles of his departing Soul, remember'd Abaliza. O Alcipus, said I, wound me no more with his Tale, I cannot bear it; for tho' I never lov'd Adrastus, you cannot think me so inhuman as to listen to his Tragedy without Concern; especially when I remember, his greatest Fault was too much Love, and such as nothing but Ingratitude and you cou'd have hinder'd a return of. I own I cannot, without playing the Hypocrite, say, but your preservation does greatly alleviate the Trouble I shou'd have had, both for your Father, and the Fate of the most unfortunate of Men, the poor Adrastus: yet give me leave to pay a small Tribute of Tears to the Memory of one you loved, and I was oblig'd to. Small let it be then, said Alcipus, since his Blood and mine let out in Sluices, cannot be worth one Tear from those dear Eyes. Those Eyes, said I, must ease my swoln Heart, or it will burst with Grief; pray leave me for a moment, and the Conflict will be over. I cannot, will not leave you, reply'd Alcipus, but I will turn my back to the Tears I cannot bear to see. By this time my Father, who heard Alcipus was come, thought he owed him so much Respect, as to come and bid him Welcome: when I saw him, I began to dry up my Eyes as well as I cou'd; but the sad Catastrophe of poor Adrastus lay at my heart a long time. When we were all together, my Father seeing us both in disorder, and Alcipus in Mourning, knew not what to make of the Scene, but asked him how Vanzouch did; he told him, with some Tears, he was dead, but begg'd he wou'd stay for the Particulars a little longer; for tho' he had 
[Page 169]
summon'd his Reason to assist him while he repeated the dismal Tale to me, he said, Nature now took place, and he cou'd not bear a second Repetition. My Father join'd with him in a true Concern for his old Friend, and after a dumb Scene of Sorrow for some Minutes, they wiped their Eyes, and diverted the Subject. Pray, Alcipus, (said I, some hours after) what became of your sick Relation that sent for you when all this Mischief happen'd? He was, said Alcipus, extremely kind to me, and the day after my Father died, he made his Will and left me his whole Estate; but the day after that, he began to mend, and then recover'd his Health. So then, return'd I, all you got by your Journey was to lose a tender Parent, a beloved Friend, and run the hazard of your own Life into the bargain. My Father, whether he had Business, or did it by Design, I know not; but 'tis likely, he thought we had rather be alone, so left us to ourselves, and when he was gone, Alcipus thus began: You have, my dearest Abaliza, to save my Life, given me some small hopes to believe I am not wholly indifferent to you, and I now beg you will remember your own great Objection is removed, I mean my Father's Consent; what hinders now, but I go this minute to ask yours, and make ourselves one, without any farther delay? 
Oh! Alcipus, said I, I am but too sensible of my Indiscretion, in giving you such early Demonstrations of my Love, but had you not surpriz'd me in my Retirement, and catch'd a Confession as it slip'd from my unwary Tongue, you had not so soon been master of that Secret, which none but my own Heart was privy to; but it is now too late to play the Indifferent, I confess your Person has Merit enough to command the Esteem of one more worthy than I am, your Estate is above my Wishes; your good Sense and Temper have their Charms, which 
[Page 170]
added to your Love and honourable Designs, leave me no room for so much as an affected Blush, when I say you have made an Impression on my Heart: As for my Father's Consent, 'tis what you ought to ask, and what I am sure he will give; but yours is so lately dead, that Decency calls for a little Delay. 
Of all the troublesome things in Life, said Alcipus, I take Ceremony to be the most impertinent, cou'd I recall my Farther's Ghost by going to the Desarts of Arabia, I wou'd go with pleasure to fetch him back; but if he be irrecoverably gone, to what end should I rob myself of a Month's pleasure, which can be of no manner of service to him? Beside, the greater a Man's trouble is, the more need he has of a Friend to share it with him. Thank you kindly, said I laughing, you're in haste to be married then, that I may help you to cry sometimes. No indeed Alcipus, when you have a mind to be merry, I'll take my part, but I bar all Chagrin as an utter Enemy to my own Temper. But I little thought how near I was to what I was declaring against; for a sudden Accident happen'd, which, had well nigh parted my Alcipus and I for ever. My last Words to him were not well out of my mouth, before we heard a confused noise in the Hall, to which place we both ran, and found my Father knock'd down by one of his own Servants, who for some Fault he had corrected: Alcipus was so transported with Rage, at the Insolence of the Fellow, that he drew his Sword and ran him into the Body. I was so frighted on all sides, that I fell into a Swoon amongst them, and lay for a considerable Time, without Life or Motion; at last by the care of Alcipus and Faddle, I came to myself, and found my Father upon his Legs again, who was only stunn'd with the Blow. The Villain who struck him, lay wallowing in his Blood, confess'd he deserv'd his Fate, but begg'd aloud for 
[Page 171]
help, which I was willing he shou'd have; since I knew the Life of my Alcipus depended on his, or at best, must stand a troublesome Trial. I therefore got his Wound bound up, and sent with speed for Surgeons, who, when they had examin'd it, gave us but little hope of his Life. Oh! with what horror did these Words fill my Soul! I ran to Alcipus, and begg'd of him, as he lov'd his own Life and mine, to abscond for some time, till we saw the Event; that if the worst shou'd happen, we might have time to make Friends for his Pardon. 
He blamed my Womanish Fears, and was greatly averse to my Proposal, which he wou'd by no means hearken to, till moved by my repeated Prayers and Tears, he at last consented; but on condition, he might hear from me every day, and then he wou'd go to a Place hard by, where he cou'd be as private as he pleas'd; but told me, he went to cure my Fears, not his own: for tho', said he, I wou'd not take a Man's Life, (and I hope for his own sake, his may still be safe) yet such an impudent Insult as his was, will in a great measure, justify what I in the height of Resentment did. But his plausible pretences to stay, had no force with me, I thought I had better want him a while, than lose him for ever, and therefore persisted in his going off; which I sweeten'd with ten thousand Promises of writing to him every day, and that nothing shou'd be wanting on my side, that cou'd any way make him easy. And must we part again? said he; Oh! my Abaliza, how can I, how shall I bear it? 
No more, said I, but go this minute, e'er I show a Weakness which may retard your Flight. He took his own Servants, and I sent Faddle, that she might know the way again, for I durst trust none but her with the Secret of his Abode; and thus, to the unspeakable Torment of us both, we were once more separated. My loved Alcipus was no sooner gone, than I went to the Surgeons to beg their Care of the 
[Page 172]
Man, and promised them Mountains if they cou'd but perfect his Cure. 
They said, their own Fame was inducement enough to make them endeavour for his Safety, tho' at present they saw very little hope of his Life, but the next dressing wou'd be the time to guess, and begg'd me to be easy till then. But Ease alas! was fled from my distracted Breast, and I spent a sleepless Night in the utmost impatience for morning, when this fatal Wound was to be open'd again. The appearance of day raised me from my Bed, and I ran for fresh Intelligence, but met with none that gave me any comfort; the Man was now grown feaverish, and consequently less hopes of his Life than ever. This killing News I sent Alcipus by Faddle, and laid the strictest Injunctions on him, as he valued my quiet, to keep close, and that I wou'd see him very soon, but durst not yet, for fear some prying eye shou'd watch my steps, and by them find out where he lay conceal'd. The fellow continu'd still so bad, that Death only was expected, and I distracted with Despair and Grief. To what, said I, has Fate reserved me? and why does it trifle with, and baffle all my Expectations? for I no sooner have a view of Pleasure, than it is snatch'd from my Eyes, and the only Joy I ever wish'd for, is gone before I had it. Why are we fond of Life, unless to be acquainted with all those sad Vexations which constantly attend it? Oh! Alcipus, what has thy Resentment done? has it not ruin'd thee and me? This Soliloquy was ended with a shower of Tears; in the midst of which, one of the Maids came to tell me, Faddle was fall'n very ill. This was a new addition of Concern to me, because now I had no body to send to Alcipus, or show me the way to him, if I had never so great a mind to go. Two whole days past without the least intelligence from each other, while I made frequent Complaints of my cruel 
[Page 173]
Destiny, and blam'd my Stars for what they were just going to remove; for after another restless Night, a glimpse of Joy began to dart its Rays, and we had some hopes of the fellow's amendment; his Fever was gone off, and after a very good Night his Wound look'd much better. I forgot to tell you, some days before my Father had a Brother come from Holland, purely to see him; he was a handsome Man, and much younger than Papa; his sweet temper was his best quality, tho' he had not one bad one to give the least disgust to any. I had not seen him for many Years, and was always a very great Favourite of his, and he always used me like his own. I was in my Chamber contriving how to get my Alcipus, and bring him home again; when my Uncle came to me, it was then just night, and sitting down with his wonted freedom, he set me on his Knee, and said; Abaliza, I have observed ever since I came, that you seem to have a more than a common Concern for this Fellow who is sick in the House; I was going to ask your Father some questions about him last night, but was interrupted. I have likewise taken notice, that all this day, since the Surgeons gave you hopes of his Life, you have assumed your wonted Gaity, are all pleasant, all chearful: I confess I am under some apprehensions for you, tho' I can hardly think so low of your Conduct, as to believe you can have any Tenderness for such a Slave; or is it all a Riddle? if so, prithee unfold it, and make your Uncle easy. At this I smiled, and being in a merry humour, I had a mind to carry on the Jest a little farther, in order to which, I made him this Answer: I am very sensible of the Misfortune and Disgrace, which Women often bring upon their Families by Under-matches; and it is so common to see our Sex throwing away an unguarded Heart to those below 'em, that I dare say, Sir, you will not be much surpriz'd when I tell you, my Life hangs 
[Page 174]
by the same Thread this Man's does; if he dies, I am perfectly wretched; if he lives, I am the happiest Woman upon Earth. 
And, why, Neice, said my Uncle, very gravely, do you suppose I shou'd not be surpriz'd at this Declaration? pray, does your Father know any thing of this worthy Amour? Yes, Sir, reply'd I, he knows the very Secrets of my Heart, and has Goodness enough to approve my Actions. Then, return'd he, as I said before, you are a Riddle, or your Father and you are both mad. I cou'd not forbear laughing to see my Uncle's Concern, of which to ease him, I told him the whole Affair; as likewise that Faddle was fall'n sick, but if he wou'd please to go with me to fetch Alcipus back, I wou'd go to her and get directions how to find him out. By this time, continu'd I, he thinks himself quite forgotten, but when you see him, you will think your labour well bestow'd; for Alcipus is worthy both of your Acquaintance and Alliance; it pleases me, to think how merry we shall be, when we meet, at your mistake: I'll go to Faddle, and return in a minute. Just as I spoke those words, and left my Uncle's Knee, poor Alcipus, whose Patience was spun to the last Thread, came from his hiding-place to see if I were alive, and to find out the cause of my cruel Silence. When he saw me seated, and merry on the Knee of a strange Man, I no sooner perceiv'd him, than I ran to meet him, and had a thousand things on my Tongue to tell him: when instead of coming towards me, he turn'd away, and with the greatest precipitation ran down stairs. I follow'd him as fast as I cou'd, and call'd upon him to return, tho' he was deaf to all, and only said, when he got to the door, he was sorry he had interrupted the Joys of my new Lover, for which he begg'd both our pardons; and without staying for an Answer to his fatal Mistake, he flew from my Eyes in an instant. I 
[Page 175]
knew not what to do, I ran back again to my Uncle, told him what he had said, and begg'd he wou'd go with me to undeceive him; but my Uncle knew not what I meant, for Alcipus made such haste away, that he neither saw him, or heard him, and was at a loss to know where I ran in such haste. I told him the whole Matter, and his Good-nature readily comply'd to go along with me; I said nothing to my Father, but with Faddle's direction, we posted away to look for that which we were not to find; for after I had tired myself to death with a crabbed walk, which, without going some Miles about, admitted of neither Horse or Coach; and which, by reason of my slow walking, took us till almost midnight to get there; we were at last forced to return as we went. We knock'd at the door till we made it crack again, before we cou'd make any body hear us; at last a surly old Man came to the Window, and asked us, what the Devil we wanted? which when we had told him, he said, he suppos'd the Man was dead whom the Gentleman had wounded, and we were come to take him, but we might go look for him where we cou'd find him, for he had been gone from thence above two hours; and without doubt, continu'd the Fellow, he knew it himself, for he came in very angry, bid his Men saddle his Horses with all speed, and away he went, without so much as telling my Master where he was going; so that's all I know of him, and a good Night to you. Upon which he shut the Window, and left us to guess, at what he cou'd not tell us. This Fellow, said my Uncle, is a very great Philosopher, for all he knows, is, that he knows nothing. 
How can you, Sir, said I, be so cruel to provoke me with a Jest, when you see my Distress? I cannot bear my Fate. Oh! lead me back, that I may lie down and die in peace. As we return'd, my Uncle, 
[Page 176]
to comfort me, wou'd fain have persuaded me, they only denied Alcipus, because they thought the Man was dead; but that wou'd not do with me, I was but too sure he was gone. With much fatigue, by the assistance of my Uncle, and a full Moon, I at last got back again, and went directly to bed; where I was no sooner laid, and alone, than I began anew to bewail my cruel Destiny. I now saw myself plunged in deeper Misery than ever; And is this thy Love, unkind Alcipus, said I, to leave me in so much Uncertainty of thy own State? well might you have stay'd to hear me justify myself, e'er you had flown from my sight for ever. 
Poor wretched Abaliza, continu'd I, how miserable has thy own Folly made thee, and what hast thou lost by giving away a Heart too soon? Had'st thou used this Destroyer of thy Peace, with fewer marks of thy Love, and instead thereof entertain'd him with a Coldness answerable to his Perfidiousness, thou might'st have secur'd him thine; but thou had'st given thyself away to one who is weary of thee before he has thee, and despises thee for loving him too much? How wou'd it have mended thy Fortune, had'st thou kept to thy first Resolution of living without Love, and how happy would'st thou have been, had the first Day of thy foolish Love, been the last of thy wretched Life? For shame, Abaliza, continu'd I, assume that Freedom which is thy due; call back that Heart which thou hast parted with upon too easy Terms, and let not that Ingrate retain the least part of what he so little deserves. I said a thousand other things which my Despair and killing Grief suggested to me, and my whole time was spent in deep Complaints. At last, Faddle came into my Chamber, and desir'd leave to introduce an old Woman, who had a Message to deliver to myself. Tho' my Trouble was so great, it hated Interruption; my Curiosity got the better for 
[Page 177]
a few Moments, and I bid her bring her in, but it was with hopes of hearing from my Alcipus, or I shou'd not have been so ready neither. Faddle return'd, and with her so frightful a Hag, that I was afraid to be left alone with her, tho' she said, her Order was to be very private. I sent Faddle into my Dressing-room, and then she gave me a Letter, which I was very sure came from Alcipus, and fully determin'd to send him an Answer; but before I open'd it, I ask'd the Bearer where she brought it from, and where the Person was that writ it. She said she was a poor Woman that belong'd to an Inn, twelve Miles off; that her chief Business was to go on Errands, that a Gentleman came in, and just stay'd the writing of that Letter, then mounted his Horse and rid away; saying, it requir'd no Answer. I ask'd her, if he had any Company? She said, none but two Servants, and a Black Boy. This Account was no way satisfactory to me, but I hoped for better Intelligence from my Letter, so gave the Woman half a Crown, and dismiss'd her. I then open'd, and read my Letter, in which I found these killing words: 

MADAM, 
I Shou'd have acted very contrary to that violent Passion I always declar'd I had for you, shou'd I have stay'd to interrupt your Joys in the Arms of my happy Rival, where I saw you so merry, and so contentedly placed; I came full of Wonder, and surpriz'd at your Silence, laying the fault on every thing but the true Cause; nor could my Ill-usage force me to a Thought that tended to your Disadvantage; and had any thing but my own Eyes been my Informers, I shou'd have believ'd it a Lye, and thrust it with my Sword down the base Throat it came out of: but no Argument is good against Demonstration. I have seen that cruel sight which rends my Brain, and tears my 
[Page 178]
Heart-strings, and I now go to end my wretched Days in some remote part of the World, from whence you, nor your Favourite, may never have the pleasure of hearing how miserable you have made the too credulous 
ALCIPUS. 
This Letter, from which I expected some Consolation, gave me, on the contrary, all the Despair imaginable, and I gave way to nothing but Sighs and Tears; I refused all manner of Company, and none were more my Enemy's than those who endeavour'd to comfort me. In short, my Melancholy increased so fast, that my Father and Uncle were almost at their Wit's-end for me, and expected nothing to ensue but Madness or Death. Thou wer't a loving Tit, said Lucy, that's true; but of all things, I admire your Memory: were I to go through this Story after you, what Stumbles and Blunders shou'd I make by the way? But prithee go on, for I long to see you happy again. Had my Tale been your own, return'd I, it wou'd, no doubt, have made as lasting an Impression on your Memory, as it has done on mine; but what we do not feel, we seldom think worth our notice. 
As the Fellow whom my Alcipus had wounded, grew better, I grew worse; and oh! how often did I wish that Sword had been pointed at my Breast, that I might have died at once by his dear Hand, rather than languish out an Age by his Cruelty. Oh! fatal Mistake, said I, and how hast thou ruin'd both thyself and me by thy Impatience? No, Alcipus, thou shalt never die in ignorance, I'll hunt out thy Abode, I'll seek thee till I find thee out; I'll undeceive thee first, then never see thee more? 
Full of this Resolution, which I made a Secret of to every body, I got up, and went to my Uncle's 
[Page 179]
Chamber, who was to go to Holland in two days, and where I was sure Alcipus was gone already, because he had a Mother there, and to which place I was resolved to follow, let what wou'd be the Event: In order to it, I threw myself at his feet, and with swoln Eyes, and a Heart o'er-charg'd with Grief, I begg'd of him to remember, it was his ill-tim'd Fondness which had brought me to such a State of Wretchedness, and I hoped he thought himself oblig'd to restore me to my former Tranquillity, if I cou'd convince him it was in his power; which, said I, it certainly is, and may be accomplish'd, if you will prevail with my Father, to let me go for a while with you to Holland; variety of Objects will divert my Chagrin, and wear off this Trouble which hangs so heavy on me. He, poor Gentleman, who never once suspected my Design, (for that, and the last Letter I had from Alcipus, I kept to myself) told me, nothing cou'd give him higher Pleasure than to see me easy again; and did assure me he wou'd use his utmost Application to my Father for his Consent; but did believe it wou'd be a Work of very great Difficulty. I own I was very much of his mind, but intreated him to try; he went that minute, and I follow'd at his heels, and stood Eaves dropping at the Door, where I heard one importune, and t'other deny as fast. I now consider'd, I had but little time to prepare, and none to lose; and therefore resolv'd to put up my own Petition, while t'other was warm in his Ear. I went in with a dejected Look, and found my Father sadly out of humour at what my Uncle had said. Is it true, Abaliza, said he, with some warmth, that you have a mind to leave me, and go a rambling into another Nation, at a time too when you are in such high disorder yourself? Sir, return'd I, (trembling for fear of an absolute Denial) it is that Disorder you speak of, which makes me so desirous to go; a 
[Page 180]
Distemper in the Body may be cured by Medicinal Applications; but those of the Mind are best remov'd by new Objects; and I am very sure, Sir, if you will but indulge my Wishes this once, and permit me to go for a Month, I shall in that time bring you a Daughter back, perfectly easy. At these words, my Father look'd earnestly at me, and whether they made him suspect my Design or no, I knew not; but after a Pause, he said, if he thought so, he wou'd not oppose my Voyage. I told him, I durst promise it, and begg'd him again, he wou'd let me go. He drop'd a Tear, and said, I was all the Comfort he had left, and now I was going to rob him of that too; but since he saw I was set upon it, he was resolv'd not to deny me any longer. I confess this Answer moved me exceedingly, and had any thing but seeing Alcipus been my view, I wou'd have died rather than have left him. I intreated him to be easy, or yet I wou'd not go, whatever I suffer'd by staying at home. He promis'd me, he wou'd; and then I went to prepare for a Voyage. In the mean time my Uncle had a long charge given him of me, and Faddle, and one Footman, was appointed for my Attendants. We were all ready, and the Day come for our Departure, my poor Papa wept much, and said, he was afraid he shou'd never see me more; but I begg'd of him to hope for better things, and told him, I was sure we shou'd meet with more Joy than we parted now with Grief. 
It wou'd be superfluous, to give you an account of our Voyage, since nothing worth repeating happen'd to us; for we were neither taken by Pirates, nor swallow'd by Waves; we escaped both Storms, and the Grand Signior's Seraglio, and with full sails of a fair Wind we reached our wish'd for Harbour. My dear Niece, said my Uncle, you are welcome to that Nation you so much desir'd to see, 
[Page 181]
and now you are here, I shall very strenuously insist upon a Performance of your Promise of being easy. Sir, said I, if I promis'd to be easy, it was with a mental Proviso, that I cou'd find out Alcipus, to whom I must clear myself of the Imputation he charges me with, or I shall never know what Ease is; I must now own that Truth to you, which I conceal'd from you, and all the World, till I got hither; That Alcipus was once, and I fear is still very dear to me, I cannot deny; but I can with the greatest Justice say, it wou'd be more pleasure to me to wash off in his sight that Levity which he lays at my door, than it wou'd to possess, or be possess'd by him. Here, Sir, read that Letter, continu'd I, then gave him that which the Woman brought from the Inn: He read it, and seem'd greatly concern'd for us both, but said, he did not think Alcipus so very culpable as I wou'd make him, because he took a false appearance for a true one. 
How, Sir, said I, can you justify his Conduct when he flew from me while I pursued his Steps when I call'd so often after him, and only begg'd he'd hear what I had yet to say. Methinks, if Love cou'd not prevail on such an occasion, good Manners might, it wou'd have been time enough to fly, when he found I cou'd make no defence; but-Hold Abaliza, interrupted my Uncle, and consider, when once Jealousy gets into the Heart of Man, it banishes Reason from the Head, and every thing else, but the Torment of him that has it. I own, I never did love to such a pitch as Alcipus has done; but I have so true a Notion of that Passion, as to believe it creates Pain equal to its Pleasure, when there is a prospect of losing the beloved Object; but we are now to go ashore, and when you are at my Lodgings, (which I will take care shall be commodious for you) we will talk farther on this Affair. When we were landed, if I may call it so, (for the whole 
[Page 182]
Nation almost looks like part of the Deluge which had never recover'd the Flood) we got a little Refreshment, and then my Uncle persuaded me to go and lie down a while, till he did a little business of his own. I seemingly consented, but he was no sooner gone, than I began to think what Method was best to be taken, in order to find out my Fugitive Alcipus; I doubted not, but I shou'd find him in that Town; because he told me, his Mother liv'd in't. I call'd for the Mistress of the House, to be inform'd by her, not supposing it a hard matter to find out the Widow of Vanzouch, who was so very remarkable, both for his great Estate, and the Particularity of his Person: but when the Woman came, she cou'd speak no English, and I no Dutch; so that after we had gaped and baul'd at one another to no manner of purpose, she e'en civilly laugh'd at me, and went down-stairs again; which put me in mind, there were other parts of Europe, besides England, that knew how to be rude to Strangers. But for all, I was so full of Reflection on the poor Woman's Behaviour, she was civiller than I expected, and, in strictness, than I deserv'd; for in less than half an hour she return'd, and brought with her a Woman, who cou'd speak as good English as myself. Of her I enquir'd after the Mother of Alcipus; she said, she had reason to know her very well, having lived some Years with her; but said she was not now in the Town. She told me, when her Husband died, who was kill'd by the English Banditti, she left it for a more melancholy Retirement, where she lives so very private, that she sees no body but her own Servants, and a Son she has, who is but lately come to her, and is now going to travel. 
If you lived with his Mother, said I, you have, doubtless, seen him; pray, what manner of Man is he? See him! said the Woman, yes, I have often seen 
[Page 183]
him, and can tell you, he was once reckon'd one of the finest Men in a hundred Miles, but is now grown pale and lean, and one of the most melancholy Creatures I ever saw. This Account pierced my very Soul: but, pray, said I, what is the cause of his Disorder? That, return'd my Informer, is what he makes a Secret, but most People think he is in love with some English Beauty; burst her hard Heart for using such a Man with Cruelty, he might have gone to the top of this whole Nation, and been receiv'd with thanks; but the English-men make such Idols of their Women, that they make Fools of 'em too, and they don't know what they wou'd be at. This made me both blush and smile, which the Woman took notice of, and asked me if I knew him; I said I had heard of him, and had a Friend who was very well acquainted with him. Why, then, reply'd she, if your Friend or you have a mind to see him, I believe it will be no hard matter, for I hear he is come to Town, in order to take Shipping for Italy. I ask'd her where he lodg'd, but that she cou'd not tell, tho' she kindly offer'd her Service to enquire. I told her, she cou'd not do a more obliging thing; and the more expeditious she was, the more she wou'd merit my Thanks. She told me, she took a delight in serving Strangers, and I shou'd see her again in a few minutes. But before she return'd, my Uncle came in, to whom I communicated the Hopes I had of seeing Alcipus again. I thought, said he, by your Eyes, there was more than a usual Content in your Breast; I hope it will not lessen your Joy, if I share in't. But, pray, my Dear, what sort of a Man is this beloved Alcipus of yours? I can't forbear fancying I have seen him; for I met a Gentleman a little while ago, who came up pretty close to me, and when he had look'd full in my Face, he turn'd about, and sent off a brace of Footmen he had behind him, but did me the honour of being 
[Page 184]
mine himself, for he has dogg'd and follow'd me ever since. 'Tis pity, return'd I, you did not speak to him, and ask him whether he had any Business with you; he is, I hear, so much alter'd, that to describe him as he was, is doing nothing, because he is now it seems so very unlike himself. While we were talking, my Scout came in, and said, she had found out his Lodgings, but he was not now at home; the Morning would be the best time to find him, for at ten a-clock he went on ship-board. I told her she wou'd still oblige me more, if she wou'd come at Night and conduct me to his Lodgings, since her best Directions would be useless, we were so much Strangers here. The good-natur'd Woman again comply'd, and promis'd to come at my hour and guide us there. My Uncle again left us, having some urgent Business which call'd him from me; and at the appointed time my new Friend came to me: while I was getting ready to go with her, I asked her if she was well acquainted with Alcipus? She said, she was not; for tho' she had liv'd some Years with his Mother, and was married from her, she had never seen him above five or six times in her Life, for he was always at School or some Friend's House, during the whole time she liv'd in the Family: he was, from his Childhood, lov'd and admir'd by every body, and I dare say, when he goes tomorrow Morning, there will not be a dry Eye left behind him. O, said I, as near as he thinks himself to the beginning of his Travels, there may be a way found out to prevent his Journey, and save the People's Tears; Fortune and our Designs do not always go hand in hand. I soon found these Words confounded the Woman very much, and she stood staring at me as if she expected an Explanation, which I, however, was not disposed to give her at that time, but told her I was ready, and away we went. After she had conducted us thro' many Streets, we came at last to a narrow 
[Page 185]
Passage, where we heard the clashing of Swords, which frighted me so, that maugre the haste I was in to see my Lover, I ran back as fast as ever I got there: it was very dark, which added to my dread; yet I sent my Man to see what was doing, and bid him prevent Mischief if he cou'd: we staid for him at a Shop-door, and he soon return'd with my Uncle all bloody; I shriek'd out, and thought he had been kill'd, but he begg'd me to be satisfy'd, and said, the Blood I saw came from a Wound so very trifling, that it was not worth dressing. However, Alcipus lost his Visit for that Night, and we all return'd to our Lodgings; I rewarded the Woman for her trouble, and desir'd she wou'd come again in the Morning, which she promis'd to do, for her own Curiosity was now grown my Security, and she was in a longing Condition to see the Event. As soon as she was gone, I asked my Uncle how he came engaged, and whether it was customary to assassinate People in the Streets? He said, no; but by what little light he had, he thought it was the same Man who had follow'd him all day. Oh! then, said I, 'twas Alcipus, have you hurt him, or is he safe? I believe the latter, reply'd my Uncle, because we had not made above a Pass or two, when your Man came so opportunely to part us. He was very concise, bid me draw, said for some Reasons we cou'd not both live, and this was the Minute to try our Fate. Sir, said I, it will be but a common piece of Civility, to let me know your quarrel with me; I fancy you be under some grand Mistake, let me first try to convince you of-Sir, said he, interrupting me, I never expostulate with my Sword in hand, defend yourself; and at that Word, he made a Pass, and gave me this slight Wound; but he was so very resolute, that one of us must have dropp'd, had not Tom come as he did. Heaven be praised, said I, that you are both safe, and Tom shall reap the fruits of 
[Page 186]
his Courage, in venturing to part you: but pray, continu'd I, as slight as your Wound is, let it be dress'd, which he consented to, and then went to Bed. I no sooner saw Day-light in the Morning, than I began to prepare for my Walk to Alcipus, and as I was dressing, I heard some body knock at the Street-door: I believe, said I to Faddle, the poor diligent Woman is come already, go down and let her in, for no body is up in the House but us: she went down, and open'd the Door to a Boy who had a Paper in his Hand, which was for some in the House, but he had not English enough to be understood for who: at last I went down, and cou'd just understand, 'twas for the English Man. I knew there was none such in that House but my Uncle, so carry'd it up to him, without Directions as it was. He open'd it, and then said, laughing, Abaliza, this is your quarrel, so you may e'en go and fight it out yourself; for I assure you, I will neither kill nor be kill'd for nothing. I took the Paper from him, and soon knew the hand, it was a Challenge from Alcipus in these Words. 

Tho' you escaped my revenging Hand last Night, you are not to think yourself secure while I live: if you have courage enough to attempt it, and Fortune on your side, you may perhaps, rid yourself of one, who professes to be your most implacable Enemy; until which time, you must never hope for a quiet possession of Abaliza. I expect you impatiently with your Sword in Hand, by the Wast-House. 
ALCIPUS. 
I'll swear, Sir, said I, you are a topping Hero, to send a Woman to answer your Challenges; but I hope, tho' you won't be Principal, you will be my Second, or at least follow at a little distance to see I have fair play for my Life. Yes, said my Uncle, I'll 
[Page 187]
go with you and shew you the way, you shall never say I parted you, without putting you together again. He then got up, and by his Assistance, I soon came where my enraged Alcipus was; I clapp'd on my Mask, and then went towards him; the noise I made roused him from a profound Study which he seem'd to be in: but when he cast his Eyes sparkling with Fire and Revenge upon me, when he expected a Man, on whom he hoped to reek his Spleen, he grew utterly impatient. What have I here, said he, a hated Woman! has my Coward Rival sent a Petticoat to make his Peace? Go, tell him for the sake of her he adores, I hate the whole Sex. Begone, fly, provoke me not to treat you rudely, but send the Dastard with his own Sword to face mine. -Poor Alcipus how he look'd-! And yet in the very midst of his Despair and Wrath, he still retain'd that captivating Form which first subdued my Heart. No Alcipus, said I, pulling off my false Face, I come not here with a design so kind, as to make Peace for your supposed Rival or myself: my business is first to reproach, and then abjure you for ever. Have you not used me ill, nay, basely? Say, did you not give me a Heart, which I too kindly accepted of, and too readily return'd another in its place? You then snatch'd back your own, and sent me mine again: this Alcipus you have done, and for no cause, but seeing me innocently sit on the Knee of a Father's Brother. A Woman's Honour, like a tender Plant, must be manag'd with care, or 'tis blasted for ever. Believe me, Sir, mine has always been as dear to me, as that Life I have ventur'd in its Vindication; and as this is the last time I am ever to see you, I will not scruple to tell you; you never had a Rival in my Heart, it was always but too much yours, considering how you have used it. However, it is once again my own, I have it safe, and it has promised, with Mr. Cowley's, never to leave me more. 
[Page 188]
This, Sir, continu'd I, is what I have to say, only I will add a very great Truth to all the rest, which is, That I still wish you more Happiness, than it was ever in my power to give you; and since I never cou'd deserve you myself, may you fall into the Arms of one that does. Poor Alcipus stood all this while like a Picture, without Words or Motion, not only amazed to see me there, but stabb'd to the Heart with every Word I spoke. My Uncle, who at a little distance stood and heard all, came to us, and as I was turning to go away, he stopp'd me; and addressing himself to Alcipus, said, he was sorry for his own sake he had liv'd so long in such an uneasy Mistake: I assure you, Sir, continu'd he, I am not qualify'd to be your Rival, nor did I ever take any liberty with Abaliza, but what the nearness of our Blood might very well countenance. I hope you are now satisfy'd as to your own Mistake, if not, I am here ready to give you any other Satisfaction you demand: I wear a Sword and fear no Threats, but had much rather mollify, than exasperate either of you. Oh! my too lovely Abaliza, said Alcipus, fly from this poor abandon'd Wretch, who has by a rash inconsiderate Folly given such Trouble, such Fatigue to the dear Possessor of his Soul: but first remember how great my Sufferings are, and how miserably I must end my days; remember too before we part for ever, my greatest Crime was caused by my Excess of Love: I do not sue for Pardon, for that I know you cannot grant, with all your stock of Goodness round you; but I can die to expiate my Fault, and that I'll do in pity to my own Sufferings: hated Life must go, because my tortur'd Soul can now no longer bear it. No Alcipus, said I, as you have liv'd to see your Error, live to repent on't too; you cannot be completely revenged on yourself, unless you live a long and miserable Life; Death is a Blessing to the Wretched, and to die voluntarily in the midst of 
[Page 189]
Woe, is an Argument of too much Self-love. Cruel Abaliza, said he, is it generous to insult a Slave, or reproach an Enemy with a Fault he confesses. Tho' I am a Criminal, I am a repenting one; and if you can't forgive, methinks you might pity a Wretch for whom you once confess'd some Favour; but I am now become your Jest, and you look with Mirth and Pleasure at my Torture. 
Heaven knows, said I, you wrong me, it never was a Jest to me to see a Fellow-Creature in distress; but Alcipus, if you reflect how you have used me, you cannot expect that I shou'd bear a share in your Suffering. To see you share my Sufferings, said he, wou'd, if possible, increase them; I have no wish but Abaliza's Happiness, tho' that Heart of her's is surely made of Adamant. Tho' that Heart he so accused, was ready to burst with secret Grief for him, yet I was resolv'd to punish him a little more, for all the uneasy hours he had given me; and turning to my Uncle, who stood with Tears in his Eyes, Come, Sir, said I, are you for walking homewards? Alcipus farewell; if you have any commands where I am going, I shall carefully deliver 'em: the first fair Wind carries me to my native Shore, where, since I am never to see you again, I shall however be glad to hear from you sometimes; for tho' my Love is no more, I shall always have the wishes of a Friend for you. I stood expecting his Answer, and looking at him, when I saw his Lips grow pale, his Eyes fix'd, and he began to stagger; we both ran to him and supported him, otherways he had fallen to the Ground. I now thought I had tyranniz'd long enough, and wonder'd at myself, how I cou'd stand so long a Spectator of his Misery, who above my Life I lov'd. I took his Hand, and said, Come Alcipus, 'tis now breakfast time, you shall be my Guest, we'll go and drink a dish of reconciling Tea; but don't give yourself Airs now, for I won't ask twice. 

[Page 190]
No my dearest Abaliza, said he, almost transported beyond himself, you know your own power too well over your penitent Alcipus, to think he shou'd wait for a second Command: and oh! cou'd you but forgive this one Fault, how God-like then wou'd you appear? I'll give you an answer at my Lodgings, return'd I; to which place we got in a few Minutes. But who is able to tell the Alteration of his Face and both our Hearts? all was so much mended, that it contributed greatly to our advantages. My Uncle, who had been long silent, thus apply'd himself to us: How great a Share I have in that Satisfaction which I see in both your Looks, is I hope very visible in mine; for as I was the innocent Cause of all your Trouble, nothing but seeing you both united, cou'd ever have given me rest; and tho' I disguised it from my Niece, had as much Uneasiness as either of you: but thanks to Fate, which has brought you together again, and may it ever increase your Joy. 
Alcipus wou'd no doubt have made some notable Reply, to this set Speech of my Uncle's, had not Faddle just then brought in our Tea, and by a general Consent we all went to breakfast; tho' I believe, while I was pouring out, there was some Apology about the light Wound my Uncle had, and pardon ask'd and granted on either side: but when we had done our Tea, every body left us, supposing, we had rather be alone a while, than have Witnesses to our Reconciliation. As soon as my poor Alcipus saw the coast clear, he threw himself at my Feet, tho' his Eyes were all that spake his Heart, for his Tongue was perfectly silent; which made me think of three or four Lines I had somewhere met with. 


   Silence in love, betrays more Woe, 
Than Words tho' ne'er so witty, 
   The Beggar who is dumb you know, 
Deserves a double Pity. 


[Page 192]
And I must own, his silent Rhetorick made a much deeper impression on my Heart, than any thing he cou'd have said wou'd have done. I saw the Struggles in his Soul betwixt Hope and Fear, Despair and Love: the last of those Passions had got such footing in my Breast, that I cou'd no longer bear to see his anxiety; but taking his out-stretched Hand, which was pleading for pity, Rise my Alcipus, said I, my Quarrel to you is now at an end. At these Words he cry'd out, Oh! Abaliza, oh! intolerable Joy! and then fainted away. Tho' I was frighted as well as troubled at this Accident, I was resolv'd to make no noise, but got up to fetch some Cushions to lay under his Head; but before I cou'd finish my Work, he came to himself, and with what little help I cou'd give him, got up and sat down by me: How, or where, my dearest Abaliza, said he, shall I find Words to thank thee for all thy Goodness to an undeserving Wretch? Can the remaining part of my Life, spent in Love and Adoration, atone for my past Fault? Oh! fill my Ears once more with that harmonious Sound, and say-I love, and I forgive. No, I thank you, said I laughing, I'll give you no more good Words, I'll warrant you; for if I do, perhaps, I shall have you to gather up off the Ground again. I have often heard, said Alcipus, that violent Joy destroys us more than violent Grief, but I never experienced it before. But I fancy, reply'd I, there's more pleasure in one than t'other, and Joy comes so seldom in comparison of the other, that we need not fear frequent Surfeits of it; but let us have no more puling with you, we are now Friends again, and that's enough: but if you will entertain me as I desire, let me have a short Account of your Transactions since we parted; for now I see you easy again, methinks it will please me to hear you were in pain. Ah! my Abaliza, said he, if you had half my Love, you wou'd suppose what I suffer'd, without 
[Page 192]
desiring to hear it; but your whole Sex are Tyrants, and you are resolved to keep up the Character. Well, since you desire it, I will give you a very faithful Account. When I had waited two whole days, which were two whole Ages to my impatient Heart, and cou'd hear nothing from you, I was then resolved to go in Person, (tho' I really did believe the Man was dead) to see what cou'd be the Cause of your cruel Silence: I came so full of Joy, first to bless my Eyes with the only Object I cou'd wish to see; and then to chide you for robbing me of the only Blessing I wish'd for: but oh! how were they blasted, when they beheld you seated and satisfied on the Knee of another Man; what Pangs of inexpressible Torment did that killing Sight give me? I look'd on him, and saw he was in all outward Appearance every way agreeable; and having never heard you speak of so near a Relation, I concluded from that, and your neglect of me, that you had abandon'd me wholly, for that new happy Upstart. So far, said I, your excuse is tolerable, and I grant there was an Appearance of what you fear'd; but how will you answer your Rudeness in refusing to hear me, or return to know what I had to say? Who but Alcipus, the impatient Alcipus, wou'd have left a Kingdom in such uncertainty. I was but too sure of my Fate, said he, nor did any thing but racking Despair and Jealousy find room in my Breast; which hurry'd me down stairs, and bid me stop my Ears to the Voice of my lovely Syren, that call'd so often after me. I flew to my place of Confinement, call'd my Servants, bid 'em saddle my Horses that Minute: they were in as much haste as I, supposing the Man was dead whom I had hurt, and we all mounted, and rid, I neither knew or cared where. About break of day we came to a Town, from whence I writ to you, then posted away to the next Sea-port, tho' I was very unfit for salt Water, for I had been three whole 
[Page 193]
days, in which I never tasted any manner of Food or Drink, save once a draught of Water; but a Ship was just going luckily off for Holland, in which I embark'd with my small Retinue, and had it not been for the sake of those on board with me, I shou'd have wish'd the Winds and Waves wou'd finish what you had so cruelly began: nor was there many Steps betwixt me and Death, for my Stomach being quite empty, and nothing for the Sea to work upon, I was in great hopes every Strain wou'd have been my last. My Servants were no less concern'd than surpriz'd at my Behaviour, for none knew the Secrets of my wounded Heart, but the poor Sufferer itself. Among the Passengers in the Ship, we had three or four Women, one of which, seem'd to be of some note, because she had a handsome Attendance: she, out of a Sense of Pity and Charity, came often to see me, and importun'd me so very much to taste of her Provisions, that at last, being asham'd of continual Denials, and with a design to get rid of her, I comply'd with her Importunity, and took a morsel or two of a cold Chicken. She seem'd transported at her Success, and said, she was sure it wou'd do me good. I told her, I fear'd it wou'd. How, Sir, said she, with some Amazement, do you fear it, have you a mind to be sick? Madam, said I, I have left off to desire, because I am never gratified; but I am now a little inclin'd to sleep. She then left me, and being a little curious to know who I was, she went to my Servants to pump them a little; but from the Charge I had given them to conceal my Name, and their own ignorance of the cause of my Disorder, she made no manner of Discovery; but as soon as she heard I was awake, she came to me again, to persecute me with her profound Civility, which cou'd never have been bestow'd on a more thankless Person: for tho' it interrupted my distracted Thoughts, it still gave me more Uneasiness; and 
[Page 194]
at last, I cou'd hardly command my Temper enough to be commonly civil to her: I own she was diverting and young, and had I been in a Condition to like any thing but Abaliza, her Company wou'd have pleased me; but I cou'd relish nothing I had, for thinking of what I had not. When she found nothing cou'd raise my Spirits, she told me, she fear'd I had something more than a Sea-sickness to disturb me, and wish'd she were worthy to know. Madam, said I, I am no Knight-Errant, who go about the World to entertain all they meet with their Adventures; and shou'd I make you acquainted with my Troubles, I shou'd make you a Sharer of them too, since I see you have good-nature enough to sympathize with any body in Affliction. Sir, return'd she, if you cou'd from so short an Acquaintance believe me your Friend, it wou'd then be no hard matter perhaps to persuade you; I wou'd not only share your Trouble, but take it entirely off your hands. So, so, Alcipus, said I, after all the Fuss and Bustle you have made about a Rival, I do not see but I was in more danger of one at Sea, than you were at Land. No, my Abaliza, return'd he, you had grasped too hard, to leave my Heart free for a second Choice; and of all Disagreeables, nothing is more so, than offer'd Love to a Breast engaged. I own I was never so set for an Answer to any thing in my Life, as I was to what she said: I saw something in it particularly kind, and that made it more nauseous to my loathing Stomach; yet, what I felt myself from Love, created something in me like pity for her, and I said with some Confusion, I am sorry, Madam, your Charity and Goodness are so misapply'd, since you have offer'd 'em to one who can hardly thank you for 'em; but at most, that is all. The poor Lady sigh'd and blush'd, and wanting Courage for a new Reply, she went away, and only said at parting-Farewel ungrateful Man, 
[Page 195]
farewel for ever. After which time, I saw her no more till we landed, and then she came to me, and thank'd me for the Receipt I had given her to cure the Folly of Love. I told her I wish'd she cou'd do as much for me, or that it was in my own power to follow my own Prescriptions; I farther told her, I was out of countenance at what I had said to her, being very sensible it was too rough for a Lady's Ear, but I thought it much more generous to stop a growing Evil while 'twas young, than sooth it till it grew too strong, and after, only laugh to see the murder'd Fair expire! And are there, Sir, said she, such Monsters in the World? Madam, return'd I, 'tis hard to answer for the whole Sex; may Experience never convince you, and may you always meet with what you merit. Which I fear, reply'd she, will be but very little, if one may guess at what's to come, by what's already pass'd; but that I may not be behind-hand with your good Wishes, may you be always happy in the Arms of her you wish for, and may a mutual Esteem for each other bless your latest hours. I sent a mental Amen after her Prayers, tho' I durst not hope that either wou'd be heard, and then we parted for ever indeed; she with a Tear in each Eye, to her Abode, and I with a Badge of your Cruelty, a broken Heart, to my poor Mother! who wanted not the Addition of my Sorrows to her own, being still under the utmost Affliction for the untimely Death of my Father. When I came to her, she knew me not, and it was with some difficulty that I convinced her I was her Son; which when I had done, instead of rejoicing to see me, she fell into the greatest Passion of Grief imaginable, and said, Now all is gone, for my Alcipus cannot live a Month. I must own, I cou'd not play the Hypocrite so well, as to dissemble my inward Disturbance; and at last, by her frequent Importunity, I told her all my Disappointments, for which, she now lies under the 
[Page 196]
greatest Trouble. I told her I had a mind to travel, and try if that wou'd give me any respite from my daily Torments; but that she opposed with all her Authority, till two days ago, seeing me continue the most miserable Wretch alive, she consented to my going, and I took a sad Farewel of her, and came here in order to be gone, even from myself, had I known how. But yesterday I accidentally met your Uncle in the Street, whose Idea was always dancing in my Fancy, and on whom I look'd, as the chief Disturber of all my Bliss. I was resolved however, he shou'd not enjoy my Abaliza without interruption; tho' I may say, never Enemy gave a Challenge with more generous Designs than I did; for as I thought you irretrievably lost, I from my very Heart wish'd, that I myself might fall, and with poor Adrastus said-Without my Abaliza, Death is welcome! I watch'd him all day, but wou'd not speak to him till Night, which I thought the best time to fight without being disturb'd; and to my wish, when it was but just light enough to see the point of our Swords, he came out of a Coffee-House, and went thro' a bye Place fit for my Purpose: there I accosted the worthy Innocent, who wou'd fain have let me into the secret of my own Error; but-Oh! Force of dire Despair, I refused to hear his Tale; and of what sad Consequence that might have proved, I am now too sensible: but kind Heaven sent a timely Agent to prevent our Fate, whom I then wish'd had been sent on another Errand. But oh! short-sighted Man, who can neither see his own Danger or Safety! No, said I, especially in the dark; had it been light, you wou'd have known your Separator, and he you, for 'twas honest Tom Trot, my Man. Just here, we were summon'd to Dinner, and when it was over, I desir'd my Uncle to call for a Pen and Ink, and give my Father and Account of our Affairs, as they stood at present, which I thought 
[Page 197]
might do better from his hand than mine. And when that is over, said Alcipus, I have a Request to make to you both; which is, to let me wait upon you to see my poor Mother, who will, I am sure, receive us all with open Arms. We promis'd him we wou'd, and while my Uncle was writing, Alcipus, whose Heart was now at ease, began to enquire after the Man he had wounded, and asked me, if he were dead or alive? He is alive, return'd I, for any thing I know; he went from us in a very fair way of recovery, for as soon as he was able to be remov'd, I prevail'd with my Father to send him away, which he did. I am glad of it, said Alcipus, for now I have time to reflect; I can find no Jest in having a Man's Blood lie at our door: Oh! Abaliza, how many tormenting hours did that Wound give me? We might have liv'd an Age in Love by this time, had that Rascal never been. But every thing gives us Exercise for our Philosophy, and we can tell ourselves, it compleats our Pleasure, to find some difficulty in obtaining it; but mine has cost me very dear, and-Yes indeed, interrupted I, you have much cause to brag of your Philosophy, when the bare Apprehension of losing an impertinent Woman, cou'd shock it so. Madam, reply'd he, you may make as free with yourself as you please, but had I not set an higher price on what you speak of with so much Contempt, it shou'd never have cost me so many restless Days and Nights: we value every thing as we like it; and tho' my Gem be inestimable, many a Man prizes his Pebble as high. But now, my dearest Abaliza, if you think I have suffer'd enough, leave it not in the power of Fate, to disappoint me again; give me what is now become my due, both from my Sufferings and your own kind Promise. Alcipus, reply'd I, it is very true that I have promised to make you as happy as my power will admit of; and I do own, there is enough 
[Page 198]
owing to your Suffering, to hasten your Reward: but I beg you will remember, that while you waked upon Flint, I slept not on a Feather Bed; I doubtless had my uneasy hours, as well as you, and all I desire to recompence 'em, is, that you will consider I have left my poor Father in a very melancholy Condition, and know, it will be the greatest pleasure to him, if I give my self away in his Presence: I therefore intreat you not to urge our Marriage till we return to England, with which Request, if you comply now, I will promise (tho' a little before my time) to oblige you in every thing for ever after. 'Tis impossible, said he, that Abaliza shou'd ask in vain; I must comply, tho' to the detriment of my own greatest Satisfaction. But come, the Letter is I see finish'd, let us send it away, and then go to my Mother, who is not far off; and there we will stay, till a Ship and a fair Wind present themselves to carry us back to England. We then discharg'd our Lodgings, and went to see the old Lady, whom we found in Tears, and she was at a loss to know her Son again, so much had Quiet of Mind alter'd the form of his Countenance. He took me by the Hand, and presented me to her, saying, Here, Madam, is the cause of all my Grief; but then she is the cause of all my Joy too. The good Lady, (beauteous even in old age) knew not what to hope, nor what to believe, till her Son made her acquainted with the whole remaining part of the Tale; which fill'd her with so much Joy, so much Content, she had much ado to bear it: nothing was ever so transported as she was, she took me to her Arms a thousand times, begg'd me to look upon her with the tender Eyes of a Child, for I shou'd always find her a most indulgent Mother, and nothing but my loved Alcipus, continu'd she, shall ever share my Affections with you. I thanked her for her promis'd Favours, and told her nothing less than so much Goodness was to be expected 
[Page 199]
from one of her fine Character, and hoped, I shou'd live to return her Fondness with an equal share of Love and Duty: And I hope, Madam, continu'd I, you will give me an opportunity of keeping my word, by bearing us company to England, where you shall always find that Respect which is due to the Mother of Alcipus, and your own Merit. She soon agreed to my Proposal, and said, now her Spouse was dead, and her only Child going from her, she had no inducement to stay where she was; and how kindly she took my Invitation, Time and her ready Compliance wou'd show. Alcipus was extremely pleased with what I had said, and told me, when we were alone, I found out new Methods every day to engage his Heart more firmly to me. 
I am not, said I, a Woman of much Observation, but from the little I have made, have taken notice, that Hearts are sooner catch'd than kept; for which reason, I think it but common Prudence in a Wife to oblige a Husband in what she can, that she may secure it when she has it; and I do not blush to say, whenever I change my State of Life, I shall set so true a value on my Spouse's Heart, as to endeavour by a good usage of him and his, to keep it wholly to myself. My lovely Charmer, said the Rapturous Alcipus, not all the Merit of thy whole Sex heap'd together, separate from thy own, shall ever have power to draw the Heart of thy adoring Alcipus, one single hair's-breadth from thy beloved Bosom. No, my Abaliza, there 'tis fix'd, and there shall rest for ever. Well, now, said I, a Truce with Love a while, and let us go to the old Lady, and my Uncle; for ought we know, he may be as busy as we have been, and upon the same occasion; for I must tell you, I have not seen fresher Charms in many young Women, than your Mother has to boast at Forty. But what shou'd I trouble you any longer for; in short, Alcipus was in haste to be marry'd, 
[Page 200]
and for that reason, spurr'd his Mother on to settle her Affairs, that we might be gone; which she, with the greatest satisfaction did, and a few days compleated the Work. She made me many very valuable Presents, and behaved herself with so much sweetness of Temper to me, that it was impossible I cou'd miss my own Mother, while I had so good a one raised out of her Ashes. 
We all took Shipping together, and with as fair a Wind, as brought us to Holland, we return'd again to England. I need not tell you, how joyful my dear Papa was to see us all, nor what pains he took to make us all welcome. Two days after we arriv'd, at the earnest Sollicitations of Alcipus, we were made one, and it is almost four whole Years since; during which time, I cannot say, that ever one uneasy word has happen'd betwixt us, but we are now as much a Bride and Bridegroom, as we were the first Week we were marry'd. And now, my Lucy, as you are my Friend, and none a better judge in such Cases, I beg you will tell me, wherein I have transgress'd thro' the whole Oeconomy of this Amour. 
First, said Lucy, I wou'd have you and your Spouse go to Dunmow for the Flitch of Bacon; for, according to your own account, no Couple ever had a better title to it: but for your Faults, I desire to be excus'd; they are what no body loves to hear of, and I beg you will not put me upon a task so ungrateful. I insist upon it, said I, and if you refuse to comply, you are not the Friend I took you for; consider, my Dear, of what service it may be to me: for since you are resolv'd my Tale shall be made publick, I desire my Faults may be so too, if for no reason, but to prevent the criticising World from making their Remarks. Why then, said Lucy, if I must be a Plain-dealer, take my Opinion, as follows: First, I think the beginning of your Love was a little whimsical, for you seem'd to be very uneasy, for you 
[Page 201]
knew not who; next, your Arguments with your Father about Adrastus, were not only too pert for a Daughter, but some part of them were very weak. Then I must blame your Conduct for going after your Lover, because you had a trusty Relation going where he was, and a Letter to him wou'd have been as convincing as your Person was; in fine, your whole Behaviour was a little too forward, which you know as well as I, is a fault in our Sex. How proud am I to find myself grown to such a height, of what the Men call Philosophy, said I, to hear all this, without being moved? And now I will try to answer all your Objections: As to my being whimsically in Love, it was not so much that, as Pride; my Father told me I cou'd never hope to gain a Conquest over Alcipus, and I was only sick with desire to convince him I cou'd. Then as to my Arguments about Adrastus-But here's my Alcipus coming, with his dear little Boy in his Hand! Come, let us go and meet him. 
Publication title:and Conditions


 

