 
The Cousins: Consisting Of, Plays, Novels, Poems, and Familiar Letters. Several Of Which Never Before Publish'd. In Two Volumes
Davys, Mary.? The Works Of Mrs. Davys. 2 v. London: Printed by H. Woodfall, [etc.], 1725.
Author:Full text: 
The Cousins

[Page -]

Title Page 
THE WORKS OF Mrs. DAVYS. VOL. II. 

[Page -]

Title Page 
THE WORKS OF Mrs. Davys: Consisting of Plays, Novels, Poems, and Familiar Letters. Several of which never before Publish'd. 

VOL. II. Containing,
I.
The Reform'd Coquet; a Novel.
II.
The Lady's Tale.
III.
The Cousins; a Novel.
IV.
Familiar Letters betwixt a Gentleman and a Lady.

LONDON, Printed by H. Woodfall, at Elzevir's-Head, without Temple-Bar, for the Author. M.DCC.XXV. 


[Page -]

Title Page 
THE COUSINS; A NOVEL. 

[Page 205]
THE COUSINS. 
Within the Kingdom of Spain, there dwelt a Genlteman call'd Gonsalvo, of a large Estate, and a very fair Character, who married the Daughter of a wealthy Neighbour; a Woman of incomparable Virtue, and the most remarkable for Wit and Beauty, of any in or about the Place she liv'd in: her Fortune was answerable to the rest of her Qualifications, and there was not a Blessing left for her Husband to wish, which did not center in her, except that of Children: the want of which, put a stop to all their Comforts, and gave them both a disrelish of what they otherwise enjoy'd. Gonsalvo, tho' he lov'd his Wife more than any transitory Good, yet his Disappointments got above his Joys, and he grew extremely melancholy for want of an Heir. His Wife Elvira took it no less to heart than he, tho' she made not so great a shew of her 
[Page 206]
Discontent; but being a Woman of much Prudence, seem'd to carry it with Patience and Submission; and told her Husband, she hoped he wou'd not love her less, for what was so much out of her power to prevent. He told her, No, she shou'd always find he had it in his Will and Inclination to use her well; and nothing, said he, shall ever have force enough, to make me have so much as a thought of you, which is not all Love. Thus they liv'd for some Years, without what they so much wish'd for: at last, when they had given over all thought and expectation of a Child, Elvira conceived, to the great Satisfaction of this wishing Couple: she was in due time delivered of a Daughter, which wou'd have given the Father a Content equal to his former Wishes, had not the Death of his beloved Wife prevented it; who liv'd not above three days after her birth. Gonsalvo was under the greatest Concern for her, and often wish'd, he had never desir'd that little Blessing which was left him, or that he had it in his power, to exchange what he possess'd, for what he had lost; which only serv'd to shew him and the World, the instability of human Nature, which is never at a stay, nor content with what it has, but is still greedily wishing for those things, the grant of which, proves very often its greatest Disquiet. 
When Gonsalvo had paid a due tribute of Tears to the Memory of Elvira, he began to think of giving his Daughter a Name, and was not long resolving on that of her Mother's: Elvira, therefore, was she call'd; and as she had her Name, so had she all the signs of being in time Mistress of her Merits too: which gave the disconsolate Gonsalvo a great deal of Joy, and he desir'd no other Diversion, than the innocent prattle of his little Favourite, on whom he bestowed all that love which her dead Mother had left behind her; and because he was resolv'd to spend the remaining part of his days in solitude, he made choice 
[Page 207]
of a Country Retirement, where he hoped to live free from the many Impertinencies which daily tormented him where he was. To this Place he carries the young and beautiful Elvira, with a design to confine her to a Country Life, no longer than till her riper Years and Inclinations desir'd a Remove. And thus he spent a considerable part of his time without any Interruption, neither giving nor receiving Visits to or from any body, except one Gentleman, with whom he had, when very young, contracted a firm and lasting Friendship. This Man (whose Name was Alvaro) Gonsalvo saved from Death; for being one day from home, and riding by a River-side, he saw a Man in the Water struggling for Life, to whose help he went, and fancy'd him to have been an unskilful Swimmer; but afterwards finding him in his Clothes, he immediately concludes, that either his own Despair or the Malice of some other Person had thrown him in. When he had, by his careful Endeavours, brought him back to Life and his Senses; he began to enquire how he came there, but found the Man so much displeased at his Deliverance, that he wou'd give him no other answer than what serv'd to express his Resentment and Ingratitude for the kindness he had done him: which confirm'd Gonsalvo in his Opinion, that he had thrown himself in, with a design to come out no more. However, he still persisted in his care of him, and made him an offer of his Horse to carry him to the next Town, where he might have Conveniences for drying his Clothes, and getting some inward Refreshment. When the other saw Gonsalvo wou'd not leave him, he began to come a little to himself, and ask'd his pardon for the rude Return he had made to all his trouble, and with much seeming unwillingness accepted of the Proposals he had made. They accordingly went to the next Town, where Gonsalvo again importunes his Companion to let him know the cause of his being in the Water. 
[Page 208]
At last he briefly tells him, That he has a younger Brother, who has always met with greater Encouragement from both Father and Mother than he has done; and he being sensible that the Estate must not be his, has made it his whole study to procure by Falshood and Lyes, what my birth-right, said he, has deny'd him; and having made several ill Stories of me to my Father, and finding none of them had the Effect he wish'd for, he advised with an evil Counsellor he had, and they betwixt 'em, made up the following Lye, which they deliver'd to my Father, and which he too readily believ'd. They had been a long time preparing him for the present Business, and one day, when they found him melancholy, they thought his Mind was fittest to receive what they had been so long preparing for him, and then told him how opportunely Heaven had sent 'em to find out my Villany; for, said my wicked Brother, I have long suspected him of some ill design against you, and seeing him out with two Fellows, whose Looks I liked not, I called upon my Friend here, who went along with me, and we follow'd 'em to a Place fit only for the Contrivance of such an Undertaking, where we over-heard all their wicked Intentions; which were no less, than to take away your Life, to make room for my Brother; and this is to be done without delay, if not as speedily prevented. 
This Story my Father hearken'd to, and believed it; he sent for me, and reproach'd me with a Crime I knew nothing of: all I could say in my own defence, was of no weight with him; he immediately commanded me from his house, and sight, never to come within either more, upon pain of the severest Chastisements. I soon found my younger Brother's Projects had taken effect against me, and I knew him too well, to believe he would lose one inch of that Ground he had gain'd: I therefore ran to the place where you found me, having no hopes of recovering 
[Page 209]
my Father's Favour; and had not you prevented me, I had stifled all my Wrongs, and laid myself down in a quiet Repose. Gonsalvo, when he had heard the Gentleman's Story out, took him home to his own House, and kept him till he heard of that Justice, which in a little time overtook his Brother; who going a hunting, fell from his Horse and dash'd his brains out against the side of a Rock. When he was gone, the Father thought he had been Childless, for he knew not where his Son Alvaro was, till Gonsalvo went to him, and first undeceiv'd him, and then made his Son's peace, and brought him to his Father. 
When Alvaro saw himself re-establish'd in his Father's Favour, and no farther fear of losing it, he began in earnest to thank Gonsalvo, for the care he had taken of his Preservation, and from that time vow'd an everlasting Friendship. 
This was the Man whom Gonsalvo was pleased to see at all times, he alone was welcome to him in his Retirements, and to him he imparted all the Secrets of his Soul. Mean while Elvira grew apace, and as her Years increased, so did her Beauty too. Her Wit was great, and her Humour good, which gain'd her the Love and Admiration of all that saw and conversed with her; and tho' very few were admitted to visit her, her Qualifications were so great, that she was (tho' not twelve Years of Age) the discourse of all the Country. 
Her Mother had left one Sister behind her, whose name was Emilia, and who had only one Son, and he abroad. This Lady had the greatest desire in the World to have her Niece with her, well knowing she could not make any Improvements where she was; and she had often written to her Father for his Consent, but found his Answers still against her Wishes. However, at last Gonsalvo began to consider, that it would be very much for her advantage 
[Page 210]
to be with one, whose Care he knew would equal his, and whose Example and Advice in Matters of Behaviour, must needs exceed any thing she could learn where she was; he therefore resolves in a Year or two more to let her go: for it was a matter of such Consequence to him, who loved his Child so well, that he could not think of parting with her of a sudden. Some Months after, he had urgent occasions to go from home, which was very contrary to his Inclinations; and because he thought every thing safe that was under Alvaro's Protection, he left his House and Daughter to his Care till his return: But as soon as one began his Journey, the other began his Wickedness; and pulling off the Mask, he appear'd bare-fac'd to the innocent Elvira, who had never defiled her Thoughts with any thing so base as his Designs. He began by degrees to insinuate himself into her Favour, and first by one Stratagem, and then another, strove to work her into a liking of him. He was at best very ugly, and was some Years older than her Father, which made him, no doubt, very disagreeable: She was wholly unskill'd in the Art of Dissembling herself, and that made it the harder for her to find out an old Practitioner. The worst she thought of all he said, was, that he would have her marry him without her Father's knowledge, and that she thought made a very wide Breach in that Friendship he had always pretended to; but when she came to understand him right, her just Resentments took place of every thing; and she made him such an Answer as would have left him very little hopes, had not he had a greater share of Impudence than Reason: but the former was so powerful, that it made him persist in his devilish Attempt, which aim'd at nothing less than the ruin of the most beautiful Creature upon Earth. However, her own Vertues, as well as his want of Merit, secur'd her; and she took all manner 
[Page 211]
of care to keep from his sight and company: But he, who knew her Father would not be much longer away, and that she would certainly tell him all at his return, was resolv'd to lose his Friend for something; and therefore one day he watch'd her going into the Garden, and unseen of any body, follows her to an Arbour, where she had shaded herself from the Sun. In the mean time her Father returns, and calls for his Daughter and his Friend. Elvira he hears is in the Garden, but none could give any account of Alvaro; his impatience to see her, makes him the Messenger to bring her in; but when he came near to the place where they were, he hears his undaunted Elvira say, 
No, base Alvaro, tho' my tender Years has given you encouragement to make your lascivious Attempts upon me, yet know, Villain, as thou art, I would submit with pleasure to ten thousand Deaths, rather than yield to thy damnable Proposals; and if I must never see my Father more without the forfeit of my Honour, assure yourself, I will sooner chuse to give up my Life and him, than once encourage the least thought that should injure either him or myself; and do not depend upon my Age for Success, for young as I am, I know how to value myself, and scorn the baseness of thy Offers. Oh! where are my Father's Eyes, that he has not read thy Guilt in thy false Looks? Did he but know what a Friend thou art, he wou'd send thee to Hell to seek thy own Likeness; for on Earth nothing is of so black a dye. Go Monster, leave thy Hellish Designs, and rid me of a Face which bodes nothing but Damnation to all that comes near it. 
Here she got from her Seat, and would have gone; but the wicked Alvaro held her, saying, Stay Elvira, for you shall hear me tell you the Cause why I have thus accosted you. I well knew, if I had 
[Page 212]
asked you of your Father, he would have denied me; and I found it was impossible to see you and not to love: if therefore you will consent to be mine upon honourable Terms, I will press you no farther to what I find you have an Aversion; if not, you must expect nothing but Force to ensue: If you will comply, you know I have it in my power to make you all you can wish to be; if not, remember, I have an equal Power to chastise your Pride: You have very few Minutes to determine, therefore pronounce your own Doom, whether you will be always Happy, or always Miserable. 
Villain, said she, thou canst not make me either happy or miserable, thy Promises and Threats make the same Impression upon me, and I fear one, as little as I value the other; therefore, once more, Satyr, leave me, and go and do thy worst. 
No, said he, I must stay to do my worst; and since fair means will not do, I will try what force can; therefore no resistance, for all opposition is vain. And taking her roughly by the Arm, he pull'd her to the ground, where, notwithstanding her Cries, he must have gain'd his End, had not her Father been near enough to come to her Rescue; which he did with a Resentment and Fury, answerable to the desert of the base Ravisher. Hold, Villain, said he, and turn to an Enemy that is able to withstand thee. Alvaro, who at best had very little Courage, was so surpriz'd, to see Gonsalvo a Witness to his Fault, that he lost even his Impudence, and durst not so much as look up; he knew his Cause was very bad, and therefore falling on his Knees, he poorly begg'd his Life, without once drawing his Sword in defence of it. Go, said Gonsalvo, thou basest part of the Creation, thou false Friend; go, and live to be thy own Tormentor; but go quickly, lest the sight of my abused Daughter stir me up to new Revenge. I scorn to reproach thee with the good I have done thee, or take that Life I gave thee once already; 
[Page 213]
only I desire thee, as the best return thou canst make me, never to see me more. Alvaro knew his Fault too great to hope for Pardon, and therefore staid not to ask it; but thought it his wisest, as well as safest way to retire: which he did with the greatest Disorder. 
The poor frighted Elvira stood almost motionless, when a Servant came and told Gonsalvo, his Sister Emilia was just alighted. This News gave her new Life, and she prepared to meet her Aunt with the greatest Transports of Joy. Emilia told her Brother, she had often sent to him by Letter for his consent to let her have her Niece; but finding no suitable return, she was now come herself with a Resolution to take no Denial, nor to stir till she went with her. To which Gonsalvo, with some unwillingness, consented, tho he kept them some Months in suspence. At last Emilia set forward with the lovely Elvira, and got safe home. And now, my dear Elvira, said her fond Aunt, I hope you will be easy with your change; for tho' you have left a most indulgent Father, you are with one whose love for you is nothing less than that of the tenderest Mother; and I know not who stands fairest for my Love, you or my only Son Lorenzo. This, I hope, Time will convince you is true. Madam, said Elvira, Time cannot convince me, it can only confirm me in the great Opinion I have already of your Goodness. And I hope I shall never forfeit that Love you have promised me, by an Action to your Dislike. Elvira continued with her Aunt three whole Years, during which time, her Cousin Lorenzo was in France, he was six Years older than she; and she was now almost Sixteen, and had sent away as many sighing Lovers. Among the crowd of her Adorers was one Sebastian, a Portugueze, who was a Man of a considerable Figure, and served the King in an honourable Post: This Man laid closer Siege to Elvira than he had ever done to a Town, and with as little 
[Page 214]
Success; for tho' he address'd himself to her with all the soft'ning Arguments of Love, and took hold of all opportunities to please her, yet all he said and did was received with the coldness of a Northwind, which blasted all his Hopes. He saw himself heartily despised, and met with nothing but disdain in Elvira's Looks; yet, like a besotted Lover, did he daily persist in his fruitless Attempts, as if he were fond of being ill used and scorn'd. 
She, who was almost worried with his trouble-some Love, had, (for a little breathing-time) withdrawn herself to a Friend's House for a few days; and while she was there, her Cousin Lorenzo return'd from Travel, and brought, in himself, a most compleat Gentleman to the Arms of a transported Mother. Emilia, whose extreme Love for Elvira, made her disrelish all Pleasure, of which she had not a share, sent immediately away for her, to make her a Partner in her Joy. And Lorenzo, who had often heard of this Miracle of Beauty, mightily wished to see her. At last she came, and presented Lorenzo with such a sight as he himself did own, he had never seen abroad. He was not a Man of an amorous fond Temper, but had always been very indifferent to Women in general; but when he saw his lovely Cousin, he began to think again, and own'd he was proud of such a Relation. While they were entertaining one another, the impatient Sebastian, who had heard of Elvira's return, came to receive another Repulse; and, like a timorous Lover, sees and fears Lorenzo; he looks upon him already as a most dangerous Enemy, and no longer doubts but he shall find him a powerful Rival. 
However, he made his Addresses, as before, and kept a continual watch over all their Words and Actions: And thus, for several days every thing went on as it used to do, till at last Lorenzo, in spight of his Indifference for the Fair Sex, began to 
[Page 215]
have a little uneasiness at the frequent Visits of Sebastian, and asked his Mother one day, whether his Cousin had any favour for him. She said, she could never perceive that she had; for which, said she, I am very sorry, his Circumstances being very considerable: And, pray, continu'd she, try what your Interest and Persuasions can do with her, you seem to have an Aversion to Marriage yourself, and therefore you need make no scruple of advising her to another. That Argument, said he, is not good, for the greater my own Aversion is to a thing, the harder it is for me to persuade a Person I love to it. But to let you see I have brought you home the same Duty which I took abroad with me, I will this day do all I can towards making Elvira a Wife. And in order to a Performance of that Promise, as soon as they had din'd, he took his Cousin by the Hand, and led her into the Terras-Walks, and told her he was desirous to know what encouragement she had given Sebastian. She said, she had never given him any, but on the contrary, all the Slights and Ill-usage in the World. But, pray, said she, what have you seen in my Carriage towards him, that gives you cause to suspect I have encourag'd him? You have never done any thing, said he, that has given me the least suspicion to your disadvantage, but my Mother's desire is, that you may love Sebastian; and she has laid her Commands upon me to persuade you to it. What then, said the half-angry Elvira, it is your desire, I find, as much as my Aunt's? 
No, said Lorenzo, it is my desire that you may never love him; and tho' I promis'd my Mother, I would use all the prevailing Arguments I was master of, to persuade you to a marry'd Life (and she, without doubt, understood, that all my Endeavours were to be upon Sebastian's score) yet I had a reserve for myself; and it is on my own behalf that I sue for 
[Page 216]
a promise of that Happiness, which none but you can grant me. In short, Elvira, you have gain'd a Conquest, which, were you less fair, I should be asham'd of, but that Face and Humour has purchas'd me my own Pardon; and I am proud, and pleased to say, I love: therefore, till you can with pleasure see me die, you must resolve to love none but me. 
Elvira, who found her Charms had done what she most wish'd for, was resolv'd to tyrannize a little over a poor Creature, whom above her Life she loved: and with the greatest force upon her Inclinations, she made him this Answer: 
Cousin, said she, you have very much surpriz'd me with what you have said, I thought I shou'd have been very secure from the Importunities of Love, while I was with you, since you have always express'd the greatest dislike to it; but I flatter myself, that all you have said, has been only to try how easily you could gain a Heart, which has made so many victorious Defences against all Assaults of that kind. This, I hope, for your own sake, is all you design, since, should you really love me, your Case would be very desperate; for I have it not in my power to make you the least Return. I shall always love you, as the Son of her that has been a Mother to me; and shall upon all occasions catch at every opportunity of shewing you the Affections of a Sister, and that, I hope, is all you desire from me. 
No, said the almost distracted Lorenzo, it is not all I desire; and without you give me more, you do not give me that: a Sister will do all that is in her power to make a Brother happy, and if you have it in your power to make me so, and refuse to do it, you eat your own words, and break that Promise you have made: But I see you aim at nothing less than my Ruin; and therefore I will leave this 
[Page 217]
place, that you may not have the pleasure of a Triumph over a Wretch that might have been happy, had he never seen you. 
Cousin, said Elvira, nothing is farther from my Wishes than your Ruin; and if I wanted natural Affection for so near a Relation, I have receiv'd too many Obligations from your Mother to wish your Destruction; and if nothing but my Love can satisfy you, have a little patience, and I will try to force my Inclinations to comply with your Wishes. No, said Lorenzo, that Force you speak of, is as bad as your Disdain; and if you cannot love me without forcing yourself to it, I see so little prospect of my Happiness, that I must, in my own defence, fly from the Person that would, it seems, love me if she could. 
You shall not fly, Lorenzo, said Elvira, (whose Heart began to melt) you shall stay and be as happy as I can make you; Elvira shall keep her Promise, and do all you desire, as far as she has power; therefore call back all those wandring Thoughts, and fix them in my Breast for ever. This gave Lorenzo new Life, and his Looks express'd the satisfaction her words had given him. But they were both so pleas'd with the Progress they had made in each other's Love, that they minded not Emilia and Sebastian, who were almost within hearing of them. At last Elvira espied them, and said, Here comes my Aunt, and with her my Aversion; she thinks by this time you have said so much for him, that I have not one Argument left to defend myself against him, but what you have answer'd. 
By this time they met, and as all Lovers are quick-sighted, so Sebastian soon found what was determin'd for him; his Jealousy began to grow, tho' Elvira, on purpose to prevent suspicion, behaved herself with more affability towards him than ever she had done before; which served not to deceive 
[Page 218]
the subtle Sebastian, who read their Design in their Looks; and from that moment secretly vow'd their Ruins: He was no longer able to sit a Spectator of their Happiness, and therefore took his leave with a Look which promised nothing but Destruction to all around him; and wished for nothing more than the Eyes of a Basilisk, that he might have darted his Venom, and looked them dead before he left them; and thus, brim full of damnable Malice, he went to put his diabolical Designs in execution. They all took notice of some very great disorder in him, tho' none of them had the least thought of his Hellish Intentions, but supposed it to be the Effects of his Passion for Elvira. 
As soon as he got home, he, with the help of the Devil, began to contrive the Downfal of those two innocent Persons, who, in the mean time, had what they both wish'd for, the full enjoyment of one another's Company; and Lorenzo fail'd not to give Elvira new Protestations of his Love, while she, who had never lov'd before, made no great difficulty of receiving his Addresses with the greatest marks of Content. 
One day as they sate at dinner, a Footman came and enquired for Lorenzo, and told him, a Gentleman with whom he had been acquainted in France, was within two Miles of him, and very much desir'd to see him: he has, said he, a mind to surprize you, and therefore has not sent his Name. Lorenzo order'd him to stay below, and he wou'd get him ready to go with him, which he did, attended only by one Footman of his own, and the Messenger; who carried him to a Place which look'd a little suspiciously, and calling to the Guide, told him he wou'd go no farther. Well, Sir, said he, stay here but two Mimttes, and I'll bring him to you. The Fellow clapp'd Spurs to his Horse, and return'd with four Bravv's, who set upon Lorenzo, and told him he must die. He was 
[Page 219]
a little surpriz'd at the Arrest, but being a Man of good Resolution, back'd with Judgment, he made an incredible Defence; and having laid two of his Ene mies at his feet, he engag'd the Villain that had decoy'd-him out; the other two fled, and left him in the hands of Lorenzo and his Man, who had it not in their power to shew him mercy, for he had already received his Death's Wound. Lorenzo ask'd him, by whose Instigation he had committed this bar-barous Outrage, and what he had done to deserve it? But the Fellow, who was past Confession, died immediately, and left Lorenzo in ignorance of his new Enemies. He thought it not safe to stay long there, and therefore made the best of his way back. He came home to his Mother and Elvira, and told 'em of the Adventure he had met with, and how narrowly he had escap'd with Life, and was much surpriz'd to think he shou'd have behav'd himself, so as to deserve Enemies in so short a time. They both express'd their Joy for his Deliverance, but neither guess'd the cause of his danger. Some time pass'd in Love betwixt Lorenzo and Elvira, before Emelia took notice of it; and when she found their design, which at first she only suspected, she desir'd to know from Lorenzo's own Mouth, whether she had god grounds for her Belief. He told her he did love his Cousin above the World, and hoped she would not oppose, what was very much desired by them both. No, said Emilia, I have often wish'd your Inclinations might lie towards one another, and am very well pleas'd with what you have said; and if Elvira and you be agreed, I have too great a love for you both, to desire to make you unhappy, by disappointing your Wishes: but Elvira has a Father, whose Consent must be sought for as well as mine; she has not seen him a great while, and if you have a mind to go together, and try to procure it, I shall not be against it. 

[Page 220]
To this they readily agreed, and after a day's Preparation for their Journey, they set forward; but an Accident happen'd, which made 'em return sooner than they design'd: for before they had rid four Miles from home, a Bullet came from some unknown hand, and shot Elvira's Horse dead under her. Lorenzo, tho' it hit him not, yet he was almost dead with the dreadful apprehensions of her being so; and betwixt his fear and surprize, he had hardly Courage enough to see whether she were dead or alive: at last, (tho' he knew not how) he got to her, and found her unhurt, he took her up, and set her upon one of the Servant's Horses; which while he was busied about, another Bullet came and shot his Hat off. This made 'em resolve to turn back, for their way lay through a Wood, and Elvira's Courage was not great enough to venture. Back again, therefore, with all speed they went, to the great surprize of Emilia, who cou'd not imagine the cause of their return. They soon made her acquainted with their happy Deliverance, and were all very much at a loss to know the meaning of what had happen'd. Elvira had enough of travelling, and was resolved for the time to come, to stay at home; however she writ to her Father, and sent him an Account of all Circumstances, as well of Lorenzo's Love, as the danger they escaped in going to him. This Letter, whether it were intercepted, or what other accident happen'd, no body cou'd tell, but it never came to the hands of Gonsalvo. 
In the mean time, Lorenzo and his beloved Cousin, waited with the greatest impatience for a return, and much fear'd so long a consideration wou'd at last bring an answer in the Negative, which wou'd have been very disagreeable to 'em both. 
The Weather being very hot, they took a Walk one Evening into an adjacent Grove, where Lorenzo entertain'd the fair Elvira with some remarkable Passages of his Travels; and among the rest he told 
[Page 221]
her, That he had a little business one day from Paris, and riding by a Wood-side, he heard a very unusual Noise made, as he thought, by a Woman; and tho', said he, I never set up for a Knight-Errant, yet my Curiosity carried me in, to see what the matter was, where I found a Woman in the greatest disorder; she had torn her Face, rent her Clothes, and pull'd her Hair off by handfuls; yet in the midst of all this Confusion, she had the air and aspect of a Gentlewoman. I was so very intent upon that Object, that I minded not one which lay by her, and deserv'd my observation as much; and that was a Man who lay wallowing in his own Blood, and just expiring: in his Hand he held a Dagger, which seem'd to have been the fatal Weapon which had ended his days, and he himself the unnatural Executioner. I alighted from my Horse, and walk'd up to her, and told her I much desir'd to know the cause of Misfortune which had happen'd, and in which, she seem'd to have a very great share. She continu'd very silent, and only answer'd me with Sighs and Tears. By this time the poor Gentleman (for such by his habit he seem'd to be) died, and then she fell afresh to wringing of her hands, and pour'd out such a Deluge of Tears, as created in me the greatest pity. I went to her again, and begg'd of her to let me know how she came there, and offer'd my Service to convey her to the City: I likewise promis'd to take care of the dead Man, and see him handsomely interr'd; I said all that my Pity cou'd invent, and I thought I had never met with any thing that deserv'd it more. After some time she look'd up, and told me, she did believe I was a Man of much Charity and Goodness; and you have it, said she, in your power to make me happy if you please. I was overjoy'd to hear her say so, and desir'd her to name but the thing that cou'd mitigate her Grief, and I shou'd 
[Page 222]
with all the Industry in the World apply myself to it. 
Why then, said she, if you have any pity for the most miserable Wretch alive, end my trouble with my days, and shoot me dead, for that is the only acceptable Service you can do me. I found it was in vain to persuade her, and I thought it the greatest act of Inhumanity to let her lie and perish. I therefore sent my Man to the Town for Conveniences to carry her away by force; he accordingly went, and left me alone with this weeping Niobe, whose lamentable Outcries had brought in some other Passengers; who, when they saw her in such a Passion, and a Man lie by murder'd, they immediately concluded me the Ravisher of one, and the Butcher of the other; and without any farther Examination, seiz'd me with a design to commit me to Prison, till I found a way to clear myself: and thus I had been serv'd, had not the poor afflicted Gentle-woman broken silence in my Justification, and told 'em her Misfortunes proceeded not from me. 
They staid till my Man return'd with a Coach for the Lady, and in it was the Mother of the dead Gentleman, who was almost distracted at the sight of her unhappy Son, and reviled the poor young Lady for the murder of her Husband; who was willing to own all she laid to her Charge, that she might have a release out of a World which was no longer able to give her the least Comfort. When I had given them all the assistance I cou'd, and had gotten them back to the City, I left 'em and went on my Journey. My Business kept me from home above a Month, and at my return I went to visit this Lady again, to try if it were possible to find out the cause of the late Accident. 
When I had gain'd admittance, I hardly knew her, for tho' she had still the most mortify'd Look, yet had she something very remarkable and pleasing in her 
[Page 223]
Face, which she wanted when I had seen her before; she knew me as soon as she saw me, and gave me the greatest return of Thanks in the World, for what I had done for her, and entertain'd me so prettily in the midst of her trouble, that methought it made me in love with sadness. I told her I was still in the dark concerning what had happen'd, and it being a thing so very particular, I much desir'd to know the meaning of it. She told me, she ow'd a great deal to my Generosity; first, for the care I had taken of her in the Wood; and next, for the kind Visit I had made her in her present trouble: and that tho' the Subject was very disagreeable, yet wou'd she, if in her power, command herself enough to tell me all; and when she had wiped her Eyes, and composed herself a little, she thus began: 
I am, said she, Daughter to one of the wealthiest Men in---, whose avaritious Temper has ruin'd the only son and Daughter he ever had: It wou'd be too tedious to trouble you with my Brother's concerns, who is, if possible, as wretched as myself; I shall therefore stick to my own Misfortunes, which stick, alas! too close to me, and begin at the fourteenth Year of my Age, when I was soft and fit for any Impression. Then it was, that by the command of my Father, I receiv'd the Addresses of Don Carlos, only Son to the Treasurer, and a Man believed by all to be very rich. He was young as well as I, being not above Eighteen Years of Age, and tho' our Parents thought us both too young to marry, yet they were willing to give us the liberty of Conversation, which we by degrees improv'd to Love, and often vow'd our Hearts to one another. Thus we went on for two whole Years; at the end of which, the Treasurer died, and left his Son a very good Estate, tho' far short of what my Father expected for me, and of what most People thought him worth. However, tho' his Estate was lessen'd, my Love was not; but I 
[Page 224]
liked him as well now as ever, and received him with the same air as before. But whatever my Intentions were, my Father's were much alter'd; he fell from his usual carriage towards him, and at last, forbid him his House. This touched us both very sensibly, and gave us a great deal of Uneasiness, yet we saw one another sometimes by stealth; and when we missed of that Opportunity, we convers'd by Letters: and thus we liv'd for some time, without any farther Disappointment, till one day my Father told me, he had prepared a Husband for me, and laid his strictest Commands upon me to receive him with Civility, as I tendred his Favour. I knew not what to say or what answer to make him; I was sure, if I said any thing to oppose his Will, he wou'd immediately lock me up. I therefore made the best of it, and seem'd pleas'd till he was gone, and then I gave my Passion vent in a thousand Complaints, which did me no service. At last I was resolv'd to send Carlos a Letter, with the sad Account of my Father's Proceedings; and while I had liberty, I got a Pen, and writ him the following Lines. 

No body wou'd desire Life, were they, like me, visited every day with new and unthought of Torments; but this last is an insupportable one, which must without your speedy Aid, sink me to the lowest pitch of despair, and I must languish and die in the Arms of some hated, I know not who, except you come with haste to my Rescue. Send your Result by the Bearer, for I long to know what course you will take to secure me yours. 
LEONORA. 
When I had written this Letter, I knew not who to trust with it; but by the help of a Companion I had with me, I procured a Fellow who promis'd to deliver it as directed: I dispatch'd him away, and 
[Page 225]
bid him stay for an Answer, which he did; and in a little time return'd with these Words. 

Fear not, my dearest Leonora, but that I will snatch you from the Jaws of all your Fears, and will this Night convey you from the reach of your Father's Cruelty. At Twelve a-clock you may expect the old Sign; be sure be ready, for I'll not fail. 
CARLOS. 
With this Letter, and the Promises in it, I pleas'd myself till the appointed time came. I open'd both my Ears when the Clock struck Twelve, and with impatience listned for the Sign: It struck One, Two, Three, and Four, yet still no Sign; and then the rising Sun put a full stop to all my future Expectations. I knew not what to think the meaning of it shou'd be: sometimes I fear'd the Heart of Carlos was changed, and that he thought it not worth his trouble to come for me: sometimes again I thought, he had met with some disaster by the way; and then (as the true cause) I suspected some Treachery, tho' all was but guess, and I was kept in Ignorance, till my knowledge cou'd do me no good. 
That Morning my Father came to me, and told me I might expect to see my new Lover at Noon, who shou'd not make me above two Visits more, before I was his Wife. I knew his violent Temper too well to make any Reply, but was forc'd with patience to submit to all he said: however, I wou'd have died ten thousand Deaths, rather than have married Frederick, (for that was his Name) had I not thought Carlos had utterly forsaken me; who might, I was sure, have made some shift to have seen me, or to let me have heard from him at least. At Noon, as my Father said, when I came down to dinner, I saw a Stranger, whom I had never seen before, and did suppose him the Person of which my Father had told 
[Page 226]
me; and from my Heart wished, that what we eat, might have proved the bane either of him or myself. 
As soon as we had dined, my Father left the Room, with a design to leave him the liberty of improving his time. When he was gone, the Stranger came to me, and in a broken Language, which I cou'd not well understand, he made a shift, I know not how, to tell me, he loved me much. I made him an answer to what I understood, in the most discouraging Words I cou'd think on; but he wanted an Interpreter as much as I did, and my frowning Brow was the only intelligible thing, by which he cou'd so much as guess at my Inclinations. However, tho' I did not understand him, my Father did; and with a joint Consent of both Parties, immediately agreed upon my ruin. He came again once or twice, and without any more Courtship or farther Acquaintance, I was, by the cruel Commands of my Father, marry'd to that unhappy Wretch, whom you saw in the Wood. 
I embraced him with the same desire, I shou'd have done a Serpent, and went to his Bed with more loathing, than I shou'd have gone to a stinking Dungeon. And thus was I forced into the most miserable and wretched Condition. At last, after I had been married some time, I had a little Liberty, and then I made a private enquiry after poor Carlos; and found out that my Father had intercepted my Letter, and when he had read it, he sent it to him, and watch'd for the Messenger's return with an Answer, which he read likewise, and then sent it to me. By this means he found out all our designs, and being prepar'd for Carlos, seiz'd and confin'd him till after I was married; and when he had his Liberty again, he went none knew where. This Account I hearken'd to with a true Sorrow, both for his sad Fate and my own. When Frederick had staid as long at ---, as 
[Page 227]
his Business wou'd admit, he return'd to this unhappy Place, and brought me with him. I did all I cou'd to love him, and forget Carlos; I consider'd he was now my Husband, and that I was oblig'd by all Laws to use him as such; and by degrees, I brought myself to a compliance with that Duty, which I knew to be so incumbent upon me. However, he knew, he had taken me against my Will, and therefore thought my Love was no more than pretence and shew, and wou'd often say in the midst of his Embraces, Oh! Leonora, were I but sure of thy Heart, I shou'd think myself happier than all the World cou'd make me without it; and I wou'd not change my Condition to be Monarch of the Earth. 
I wept and told him, nothing cou'd be so unkind as his causless Suspicions of me were, and professed to him, that not only my Heart, but the Thoughts thereof, my Words and Actions, all were wholly his, without the least reserve; and begg'd of him to believe me, as he tendred my quiet and his own. At last, with a daily repetition of my Vows, and a constant care to oblige him, I brought him (seemingly at least) to believe me real; and we liv'd for some time in a perfect Content, without the least accident to disturb our Ease, till Fate, who had another bitter Draught for me to swallow, one day brought me a Letter from a wretched Brother I had, whom I mention'd to you in the beginning of my Story; in which he express'd his Resentments, against my Father's Cruelty to us both; and said, his Pity was greater for me, than his Trouble for himself; and that he cou'd not remember me lodg'd in the Arms of one he knew I hated, without the greatest transports of Rage: and said, he cou'd curse his Stars for denying him a power to revenge himself and me. He likewise expressed himself in the bitterest against my Husband. All which, you may believe, made me not willing to expose his Letter; I was 
[Page 228]
therefore resolv'd to read it, and then commit it to the Flames; but before I had well gotten to the bottom of it, my Husband came into the Room, and ask'd me, what Paper that was? My Confusion was so great, that I had not Presence of Mind enough, to think of any excuse; but with a colour, which represented me more guilty than I really was, I wou'd fain have shuffled it into my Pocket, under the foolish Pretence of a Taylor's Bill. But he, who had taken but too much notice of my grand Disorder, desir'd the liberty of seeing it. I knew how much pains it had already cost me to bring him into a Belief of my Sincerity towards him; and I was very sure if I gave it to him, it wou'd be a means to call back all his former Suspicions of me, and to create an everlasting Feud betwixt us. This Consideration made me grow resolute, and I positively deny'd to let him see it; tho' I have had time enough to repent my inconsiderate Folly, and have often wish'd, I had run the risque of all the Inconveniencies which might (and wou'd without doubt) have attended my Compliance. 
When he saw he cou'd not prevail with me, he gave over asking, and glossed over his dreadful Designs with a smooth Brow, and his usual Carriage. One day he came to me, and told me the Weather was very inviting, and he had a mind to take a little Air, and asked me if I wou'd go with him. I very readily consented, and we went together into that unlucky Wood, where you found us; and making choice of the most melancholy place of it, as being fittest for the part he had to act; he told me, my Unkindness had made his Life a burthen to him: And cursed be that Man, continu'd he, that takes a Woman to his Bed, whose Heart is lodg'd in another's Bosom. But, Leonora, said he, I have done you wrong as well as myself, and I have no way left to expiate my Fault, but by removing the hated 
[Page 229]
Object from your Sight. And without giving me time to make the least Answer in my own Justification, he pull'd out a Dagger which he had brought with him, and before I was aware, or had well seen it, he had plung'd it in his Breast. Oh! cruel Frederick, said I, what hast thou done? 
I have, said he, left you free for the beloved Carlos, whose Letter you kept with so much Industry from my sight. I never had a Letter from Carlos, said I, since I was thine, nor did I ever entertain so much as a thought to thy disadvantage: Oh! do but look up and live, to take a thousand demonstrations of my Love. He took me by the Hand, and gave me a dying Farewel, but never spoke more! I need not tell you the extravagancy of my Words or Actions, since you came time enough to be a Spectator of one, and an Ear-witness to the other. 
When I was brought back to this Place, you know I was left in the hands of my Mother-in-law, who aggravated my trouble, by charging me with the horrid Fact of murdering my Husband, and deliver'd me up to Justice, by which I must have suffer'd, having nothing but my own Word to bring me off, had not my poor Frederick taken a Method to prevent it, which he did thus: Before he went to the fatal Place appointed by himself for his Execution, he left a Paper in the hands of his Man, with orders not to open it till the next Morning, by which time he did suppose, I shou'd be tax'd with a Crime, which he knew I shou'd be innocent of; and in that Paper he had written his Design, and had deliver'd it to his Man, before two Witnesses, which clear'd me as well of the Fact, as of the Scandal of it. 
Thus, said Lorenzo, Leonora made an end of her mournful Tale; and then I got up, and with Thanks wou'd have taken my leave; but as I was going, her Maid brought her a Letter, which she open'd, and read with a great deal of Concern, and change of 
[Page 230]
Colour. When she had done, she gave it to me, saying, Sir, you have had a true Account of my unfortunate Life hitherto, and therefore I will not make you a Stranger to this Letter; read it, and give me your Advice. I took it from her, and, to the best of my remembrance, found it thus: 

Since Heaven has espoused my Quarrel, and removed that Adversary who robb'd me of all my Joys, I hope I may now lay a just Claim to that Heart, which has so often been given by her, who only had the right of disposing of it. I send you this, to prepare you for a Reception of the Author; who hopes, whatever he has been, he is not indifferent to you now. I have made it my chiefest care not to disturb your quiet; and therefore have kept myself conceal'd: yet have I spent as much time here as you have done, and waited with patience for this Hour, which will prove happy, as you give Encouragement to your once beloved 
CARLOS. 
When I had read this Letter, I return'd it to Leonora, whose Looks were much mended; and finding by her Silence, that she expected my Opinion, I gave it her thus: 
Madam, said I, your Life has been a Life of much Uneasiness, and such as requir'd the steadiest Mind to bear; but now you have it in your own power to give your Fortune a turn, and if I were worthy to advise, it shou'd be to take the Man you love, and seek in him that rest which the World has, in every thing else, so long deny'd you. This Advice I found was not unwelcome to her, tho' she made some slight Objections, which I believe she only did, that I might answer them. I took my leave of her for that time, and in a few days I visited her again, and found Don Carlos with her; I told her I shou'd in a little time leave France, and cou'd be glad to see her 
[Page 231]
happy before I went. She said, she had made no Resolution against Don Carlos, but wou'd not think of marrying till she return'd to her own Country. I saw her not afterwards, but heard she was gone. 
And thus Lorenzo ended his Story, by which time it was almost Night, and they began to think of returning home. But as they passed by a Place very thick of Trees, they thought they heard somebody talk, and fancy'd they knew the Voice: they stopp'd, and heard a Man say, What, must all my Projects fail? And is it impossible to gain my ends? Will nothing reach the Lives of them I hate, but must I still thirst for Revenge, without a power to bring my designs to perfection? No, continu'd he, I'll plunge to the deepest Gulf of Hell, but I'll find a Revenge equal to the Disdain I have met with. I'll make that proud Beauty know, it had been safer for her to have stood a Thunder-bolt just hissing from the Sky, than to have scorn'd me for that Toy, Lorenzo. This last Word made Elvira tremble, and she begg'd Lorenzo to make haste home; who wou'd much rather have gone to meet his Enemy, had not Elvira's danger check'd his rising Choler. They both knew it to be the Voice of Sebastian, and by this Discovery, unravel'd the bottom of all their past dangers. Elvira's Fears added Wings to her Feet, and Lorenzo's Love made him keep pace with her; so that in a very little time they got home. She told her Aunt of Sebastian's Treachery, and how by chance they had found out all his Designs, which aim'd at nothing less than hers, and Lorenzo's Life; and which she much fear'd, he wou'd at last, by some Project or other accomplish. His Threats were always in her ears, and she never miss'd Lorenzo from her sight, but she concluded Sebastian's Treachery had reached him. Thus did she live in the midst of ten thousand Fears, and wou'd have given almost Life, to have been secured from Death. 

[Page 232]
Lorenzo, whose care it was to divert her Womanish Fears, did all he cou'd in order to it; and told her, the best way to put a stop to Sebastian's Malice, was to marry; for, said he, when he finds his hopes are gone, he will no longer pursue you with his Revenge, but rather shew his Resentments by slighting the Affront. 
I only wait, said she, for an order from my Father, at whose Silence I am very much surpriz'd, and cannot but fear something more than well has happen'd. Lorenzo told her, if he cou'd persuade himself to leave her so long, he wou'd go and see. But the thoughts of Sebastian's wicked Intentions made her resolve against it, and she gave very little Encouragement to that Proposal. 
Thus those two innocent Persons sate entertaining one another till almost Midnight, when they heard a Man without the House, cry, Villain, what dost thou do? Lorenzo started up and went to the Window, where he saw two Men striving for a lighted Match. It was so dark that he cou'd not know either of them, but he said, he did very much suspect one of them was either Sebastian, or some body set on by him to do some mischief. He immediately rais'd the House, and, with his Servants, went out to see what the matter was; he found only one Gentleman, standing by a Train of Gun-powder; the other, at the Noise they made going out, with all expedition vanish'd. Lorenzo went up to the other, and not knowing how to accost him, whether as a Friend or an Enemy, only ask'd him what his design was; who told him, it was to do him Service, and preserve not only his, but the Lives of all his Family, who must have been laid in Ashes by this time, had not some unknown Power, said he, sent me this way to your Deliverance. 
Lorenzo expressed his Gratitude in the most obliging return of Thanks, and with a great deal of importunity, after many denials, he at last prevail'd 
[Page 233]
with the Stranger to go with him into the House, where he desir'd a more perfect Account of what had happen'd. He told him, that being much a Stranger in that place, and the Night coming upon him before he expected it, he was quite at a loss which way to go; and after having wander'd some time in an unknown Path, said he, I at last espied a Light in this House, towards which I made for a little Information; but when I came nearer, I happily saw a Man very busy about something on the Ground: I was a little curious to see what he was doing; and found, by all Circumstances, that he was laying a Scheme for the Ruin of this House and Family. I was resolv'd to put a speedy Prevention to his Designs, and spoke aloud on purpose to alarm those within. He soon perceiv'd his Plot was spoil'd, and when he heard you coming, he muttered out some Curses against me and you, and all the World, and then got away as fast as he could. When he had told Lorenzo all he knew, he got up, and would have gone, which Lorenzo would by no means admit of; but told him, he should stay and take a little rest till Morning, and then he would detain him no longer. 
Rest, said the Stranger, is what I am unacquainted with; nor shall I ever throw away my expectations, on what I know so well I must never be possess'd of. If you desire me to stay till morning, I will; but did you know what a wretched Guest you have gotten, you would rather drive me from you, than invite me to stay; and would send me hence to breathe infectious Air among those Creatures who come nearest to my own Misfortunes. Here the Stranger, in spight of all his Manhood, drop'd a Tear or two; which mov'd the tender Heart of poor Elvira so much, that she kept him company in his melancholy Exercise; and told him, if it would not make too great a breach in Charity to desire a repetition of 
[Page 234]
what so nearly touched him, she could be very earnest in the request of knowing the cause of his Trouble. 
Madam, said he, tho' it be opening my Wounds afresh, to repeat my Wrongs, yet you seem so very desirous to be acquainted with my Sufferings, that to morrow-morning I will give you the saddest Account you have ever yet been entertain'd with; but you must wrap your Heart in a Case of Adamant, or it will melt away in the hearing of it. Here the Stranger stopt: And Lorenzo, who thought it time for them all to go to rest, conducted him to his Apartment, and then Elvira and he went severally to theirs, where the latter spent their time in Sleep, and the former his in Sighs. When it was day, this restless Stranger got from his Bed, which afforded him but little Comfort, and took a walk into the Gardens, which were very fine. Our two Lovers were not long behind him, who, when they had given him a good Morning, challenged his last Night's Promise; and he, who was willing to fulfil their Desire, thus began: 
My Name, said he, is Octavio, born in a neighbouring Nation: I have, to my Father, one of the cruellest Men in the World, whose daily care has been to make his Children miserable. My Mother died when I was very young, and left behind her no other Child than one Daughter and myself: And when I was about Fourteen Years of Age, my Father was sent for to a dying Friend, who earnestly begg'd his Care of a little Daughter he had, she being his only Child; and, with her, put all his worldly Substance, which was not much, into his hands. My Father gave his Friend all the assurances of his best Endeavours for his Child: And when he was dead, he brought her home; and I cannot do him Justice, unless I say he used her with a great deal of kindness, had not his Cruelty afterwards 
[Page 235]
cancell'd all his Care. She was about ten Years of Age when she came to us, and had the same Benefit of Education which my Sister had. We lived together as Children, while we were so, and (which is very rare) I do not remember that we ever had the least Jar or Dispute about any thing, for the space of five whole Years which we lived together. 
For my part, I had not the least thought of Love; yet the sweetness and affability of this little Orphan's Disposition made an early Impression on my Heart: And tho' she was a most diverting agreeable Creature in all particulars, yet nothing moved me so much to Love, as did her unparallel'd Humour. I often made it my study to make her angry, and did things in order to it, which I myself was asham'd of, tho' I could never accomplish my design; for she bore all my Tryals with such evenness of Temper, as if she had been her own Prophetess, and had known before-hand that she was made to suffer. 
This turn'd my seeming Indifference into a most violent Love; and Life and Light were grown hateful to me when she was absent from my Eyes. Here the Stranger interrupted himself, and lifting up his Head with a Sigh, told his small Auditory, that when he began his Story his design was to have made it very short; but, Madam, said he, the Subject is so large, that I find it impossible to stint myself; and I hope, since you have so earnestly desir'd it, you will arm yourself with patience to hear it out. Sir, said Elvira, you need not make any Apology for what promises so much Diversion; and if you have but Courage to proceed, you need not dispute my Patience to hear you. Know then, Madam, said he, that nothing was ever so fond of his Fellow-Creature, as I grew of the incomparable Clara (for that was her dear Name) but tho' I had 
[Page 236]
given her a thousand Marks of my Love in dumb shew, yet had I never verbally express'd myself to her on that Subject. One day, when we were alone, I took her by the Hand, and told her, I hoped my Eyes had not been such ill Orators, but that they had in part done the Office of my Tongue. However, Clara, said I, if they have been silent, I am resolv'd to be so no longer; and since I cannot live without you, it would be the greatest Self-denial to forbid myself a discovery of what I hope you will make no great difficulty of accepting of. She, whose Apprehension was always on the wing, staid not for a plainer Explanation of what I had said, but told me, she had often fear'd what she was now but too sure of. This gave me some uneasiness, and I asked her what formidable Object presented itself to her in the shape of me or my Love, that could give her the least apprehension of Fear. 
Oh! Octavio, said she, I see nothing in your Love but what inspires me with something too like, itself; but I see such dreadful Effects arising from that Cause, that I much fear they will end in our Ruin; you know your Father expects you should marry to advantage, which you can never do by taking me to your Arms: And when he comes to know how much we love, the end of it will be an everlasting Separation. Had we not therefore, said she, better prevent this growing Ill, by nipping our Follies in the bud, before they grow headstrong, and past our mastery? 
Clara, said I, your Love perhaps is in the bud, and you can hinder its growth when you please; but mine is full grown, and has taken root so fast, that nothing but tearing out Heart and all, can be of force enough to displace it. Tell me not therefore of Advantage, give me but thyself to bless my longing Arms, and then shall I be master of more Wealth than the Eastern Empire has to boast of. 
[Page 237]
Thus did I entertain my Clara every day, without the least suspicion; my Father not once guessing at any thing like Love betwixt us; nor any body else except my Sister, who had all along been privy to it, and who was soon after almost as miserable as myself. But there was, it seems, a time prefix'd for her Troubles to end, while mine must bear a lasting date; and not so much as a bare hope to sooth my sinking Soul, or give my drooping Spirits new Life. One day I had sate myself down by the unhappy Clara, and with a sudden transport took her to my Arms; at which unlucky Juncture my Father happen'd to come in. He looked upon us with the greatest surprize, and without speaking one word, he went straight out of the room. Now, said my poor Clara, we may take an everlasting leave of one another, for I shall be soon banish'd from your sight. Oh! Octavio, said she, how much would you have loved me more, had you loved me less? for now I have given up my Heart to you, I shall be sent I know not where, to some remote part of the World, where I must pine away, and never hear your Name again, but when kind Echo returns an Answer to my Complaints. 
No, Clara, said I, wherever you go, thither will I follow; nor shall all the Menaces of a cruel Father hinder me from being a Partner in thy Fortunes. Thou shalt never say, Octavio drew thee into Misery, and there left thee; for if thou art to be wretched, it shall be his choice to be so too. While I was thus breathing out the very Resolutions of my Soul, and making fresh Protestations to the Mistress of all my Vows, my Father call'd me; I went to him, and found him in a very pleasant Humour, which made me hope for a Toleration of my Love: But he soon took care to undeceive me, by telling me, he was growing old, and knew not how long he had to live; I shall therefore, said he, be glad to see 
[Page 238]
you and your Sister disposed of before I die; and in order to it, I have provided a Husband for her, and a Wife for you, and will have you both marry'd very soon. I told him he could propose nothing to me which was more my Aversion than a Wife, and hoped he would let that be the last time of urging me to any such thing. He, who had a greater share of Cunning than Humanity in him, seem'd to be satisfy'd with this Answer; and told me, very moderately, since my Inclinations were so much against it, he would leave it to my own choice, either to marry, or let it alone: And for that time our Talk ended; and I was fool enough to believe him satisfy'd, and had hopes that I might in time bring him to comply with my Wishes. 
Clara and I spent our time as before, tho' she always had a suspicion of my Father, and said, she was afraid some rough Design lurk'd under that smooth Brow; which prov'd too fatally true, both for her and me. 
Not long after, my Father told me, he wou'd have me go and visit a Relation who liv'd not far from us, and whom I had not seen of a considerable time, and cou'd have been content never to have seen him, rather than have left Clara one moment; but it was my Father's Command, and I durst not refuse to go. I was dispatch'd away without time to consider, and was receiv'd with a kindness very different from what I had been used to at that Place. I made several offers to go home, but still found 'em very pressing upon me to stay longer; at last, it grew towards Night, and then I was resolv'd to be gone, tho' they did all they cou'd to have kept me till the next Morning. I began to suspect that all this kindness had something in the bottom, which wou'd in the end make me uneasy: upon which thought, I immediately left the House, and with all speed went home. I met my Father at the Door, who look'd, as I thought, 
[Page 239]
wild and surprized; I gave him an account of my small Journey, of which he took not much notice; I found by him that he did not care to talk, and being glad of an Opportunity to leave him, I went to look for Clara: but when I came into the Room where she commonly was, I saw no body but my Sister in Tears. I soon began to fear, and ask'd her hastily, what was become of Clara? to which, she gave me no Answer. What, said I, almost raving, are you become my Enemy too? No, said she, I am your Friend, while I keep you in ignorance, and if you have a mind to preserve your Wits, live without any farther Information; or if you must needs know the woful Tidings of your own Ruin, make not me the Author of such unwelcome News, but go to some Enemy that can be pleased to see you die. 
No, said I, I will go no farther, I will know all, and that from you. What! has my barbarous Father convey'd away the innocent Clara, and does he fondly suppose, that I'll stay tamely here without her? No, continu'd I, I'll ransack Earth and Sea but I'll find her out; and let him see, that I have it in my own power to make myself happy, in spight of all his Cruelty. 
Oh! Octavio, said my weeping Sister, how much do you boast a power you have not! My Father has not done his work by halves, nor has his Cruelty reach'd at any thing less, than the Life of the much abused Clara. These Ears heard the Sentence of her Death pronounc'd, and these Eyes saw her go to it like a Lamb to the Sacrifice, without the least reluctance. She only begg'd one quarter of an hour's respite, which, when granted, she spent in writing a Letter to you; and when she had finish'd it, she gave it to me, and told me, the last Request she shou'd ever make to me, was, to deliver that Letter to my Brother. I gave her my faithful Promise to fulfil her last Request, tho' it is with some unwillingness I 
[Page 240]
keep it. I snatch'd it from her, senseless as I was, and by a frequent repetition of it since, I believe, I can tell you every Word of it. 

I always told you, dear Octavio, that I was not worthy of you; but tho' I must not live yours, yet in spite of your cruel Father, I will die so; and since I die for so good a Cause, Death is doubly welcome. I know your Love for me is very great; and if you are resolv'd to make me happy in the Grave, spill not your Sand before your Glass is run, but wait with patience the Will of Heaven: I go to give up that Life which cou'd no longer be of use to me, than it had the liberty of enjoying your Company; and when once that was deny'd me, Death was the welcomest Guest to my afflicted Soul! Live, dearest Octavio, and live happy, by forgetting the most unfortunate 
CLARA. 
When I had read these Lines, I threw myself upon the Ground, and for some time lay without Motion. My frighted Sister call'd for help, and by the assistance of outward Applications, they brought me to a new sense of my Misery. They got me to bed, and with their greatest diligence watched my Actions, which prevented the design I had of setting my Soul at liberty, to follow my injur'd Clara. I say for some Weeks in so dubious a Condition, that the most skilful Person about me, knew not whether I had an Hour of Life to come or no; I spoke not to any, nor had I the perfect use of any of my Senses. My Father, whose Guilt had kept him from me all this while, when he heard 'twas impossible for me to live, he came to be a Spectator of his wretched Son. Tho' I had not spoke for some days, yet the sight of him raised new fire in me, and I got up in my Bed, and turning to him, with burning Rage, Come, said I, inhuman Father, behold the Trophies 
[Page 241]
of thy glorious Cruelty; see here thy only Son, whose Thread of Life thou hast cut before it was half spun. Oh! with what Eyes wilt thou look thy last Hour in the face, who hast betray'd thy Trust, and murder'd the Innocent committed to thy charge? Oh! that she had died by any other Hand but yours, that I might have torn the Villain piece-meal, and scatter'd his mangled Limbs over the face of the whole Earth. And why is thy barbarity at an end? Why am not I a sharer in her Fate? Or, is it a pleasure to you to see your Son die daily, by living in perpetual Misery? Oh! have some pity for a Wretch of your own making, and take that Life you gave. Here I grew faint, and falling back upon my Pillow, gave way to what my Father had to say, who when he saw the weak Condition I was in, thought it not best to give me any Reply; but ordering the greatest care to be taken of me, he left the Room, and I saw him not since; for finding that his Presence did but exasperate me, he was resolv'd to see me no more, till I either grew better or worse. I lay for some time longer in a great deal of uncertainty; but at last, strength of Nature got the better; and tho' my Mind was still the same, yet my Body recover'd its former Health, and by degrees I re-assumed Strength enough to go abroad again. As soon as I was in a Condition to travel, I took up some Money which a dead Relation had left me, and taking leave of my Sister only, I left that dreadful Place of all my Sufferings, and have ever since been in pursuit of that Rest, which I now despair of, since I have so long sought it in vain. I hear sometimes from my Sister, who has been as great a Sufferer as myself, but has at last gain'd the Point, and is now happy with the Man she loves; and were I capable of the least Content, the change of her Fortune wou'd give me a considerable share. But alas! as all my thoughts were Clara's while she liv'd, so are they to be wholly hers while I do so; and I think 
[Page 242]
I do her the greatest Injustice, if at any time I rob her of a Moment of 'em. 
Sir, said Lorenzo, your hard Fate calls for the greatest Compassion; and I never met with any thing that touch'd me so much, except the relation of a Story I had once from a Lady in France; whom, by the whole run of your Discourse, I do verily believe to be your Sister: she told me her Name was Leonora, and her Husband's Frederick, who put a period to his own days, occasion'd by the mistake of a Letter. That very Person, said Octavio, is, as you suppose, my Sister, and I do believe you are the Gentleman of whose Civility she has, by Letter, given me an account: and since I have nothing but a poor return of Thanks in my power, I beg of you to accept of them in her behalf. 
Lorenzo embraced Octavio, and told him, he had made a greater return than any thing he had ever done cou'd deserve, by preserving him and his whole House, from the sudden destruction intended against 'em. But, said he, if you have a mind to load me with Obligations, you cannot do it more effectually, than by giving us a few days more of your Company. Elvira likewise desir'd, that since he had no settled place of abode, he wou'd resolve to spend some of his time where he was, and where she hoped he might find as much Content, as if he went in quest of other Company. 
Octavio (who tho' he had lost his Quiet, yet retain'd his Manners) told them, how sensible he was of the favour they did him in desiring the Company of a Person wholly unconversible; and one who was fit for nothing, but to give an entertainment to his own dull Thoughts. Yet, Madam, said he, since you command my stay, I will in obedience comply, tho' I do very much believe you will, in a little time, grow extremely weary of your Guest, and heartily repent your Invitation. Before Elvira cou'd make an 
[Page 243]
Answer to what he had said, a Servant came with a summons to dinner, where Octavio eat not much Meat, but fed plentifully upon Sighs. 
When they had dined, Lorenzo told him, he wou'd take him out to a Place, which look'd as if it were made on purpose to indulge such Melancholy as his. They prepared for their Walk, and Elvira and her Aunt went along with them: just at the Door they met a small Merchant, with Womens Toys; and among several Bottles of Essences and Perfumes, was one of an extraordinary Vertue, distinguish'd by the Name of a Cure for Melancholy; nay, it was like all Quack Preparations, good for every thing. Elvira, who had a particular fancy for the Bottle, as well as to try what effect it wou'd have on Octavio, tho' it was very dear, yet she bought it, and call'd for a Glass to present him with some of it; in the mean time, the Man of whom they bought this rare Cordial went away, and the strictest enquiry they could make, was not sufficient to find him out again. The Glass which Elvira call'd for, was brought, and as she was going to fill some of it out, the Bottle slipp'd from between her Fingers, and broke to pieces: this Disappointment spoil'd Elvira's Experiment; and while she was lamenting her loss, a little Italian Greyhound, that had been Lorenzo's Fellow-Traveller, and used to taste of every thing, ran to this Liquid stuff, and lick'd up some of it, but being very strong, he shak'd his Ears and left it; and in two Minutes swell'd to a prodigious bigness, and died immediately. This gave 'em all the greatest surprize, but Elvira made no doubt, but that it was one of Sebastian's Contrivances to end her days. Oh! said Octavio, how near was I to a Cure for all my Pain, had but this lucky Hour favour'd me with one spoonful of that Cordial? 
Lorenzo was so enraged with this last Attempt, that he drew his Sword, and vow'd he wou'd no more 
[Page 244]
sheath it, till he found a way through the Heart of that base Villain, that had so often sought out means to end his and his beloved Elvira's days by Treachery; and flinging himself out, he went directly to the Grove, where they had, some time before, heard Sebastian breathe out his Threats against 'em, and where he had been inform'd, he spent much of his time. Here, said he, I will seek my Enemy, and either give up my own Life, or take his. 
Elvira and Octavio did all they cou'd to persuade him back, but he was grown resolute, and wou'd not hearken to any thing they said: he ran from Place to Place in search of him; and call'd aloud upon an Enemy, who was not within hearing of him. At last he heard somebody among the Trees, and with a Fury full ripe, and grown to the height, he ran in, with hopes to find the worst of Men, Sebastian: but instead of him, he found a poor, miserable, lean, tatter'd Creature, which he knew not what to make of, whether Man or Woman. Octavio and Elvira follow'd him close, and were Spectators of this moving Sight, as well as he. And what art thou, said Lorenzo, for a miserable Creature? I am, said she, (for it was a Woman) what you say, and my Name is Misery! Ask me no more, for that is all you must know of me. 
Octavio, who had listned to the few Words she had spoken, thought himself very well acquainted with that Voice, but cou'd not persuade himself that he had ever seen the Face in his Life. Sir, said he to Lorenzo, you promis'd to shew me a Place fit only for the wretched, and surely this is it. The poor Woman, who had never rais'd her Eyes from the Ground, hearing Octavio speak, lifted 'em up, and looking on him, cry'd out aloud, Octavio! and then fell to the Ground. Octavio, who knew her not, was much at a loss to know how she came by his Name; however he ran to her, and with the help 
[Page 245]
of his Companions, brought her to herself; and then asked her how she came to know him. Alas! said she, are Poverty and Rags disguise enough to make Octavio forget his Clara? And is it possible that any thing can alter me past your knowledge? My Misfortunes are doubly such, if you resolve to forsake and despise me for them. No, said Octavio, if thou art Clara, thou art still the only Creature upon Earth that can give relief to my distracted Mind and wounded Heart; thy Wrongs have cost me too many Months repose, and I have given up my self too much to the thoughts of thee, to slight or despise thee now I have found thee: but the Thoughts and almost Certainty of thy Death, are so impressed upon my Mind, and thou art so very unlike thy self, that still methinks, I doubt my own Happiness. If you consider the difference, said she, between Want and Plenty, Rest and Labour, Ease and Pain, between Quiet of Mind, and distracted racking Thoughts, you will no longer wonder at the alteration you see in me. If Octavio still loves Clara, and can love her in the midst of so much Poverty, he may yet be as happy as she can make him; and need no longer doubt, but that he has infallibly recover'd what has been so long lost, both to him and herself. 
Tho', said Octavio, thou hast nothing of Clara but her Voice, yet I will believe thee her. Oh! come to my Arms, thou dear promoter of all my Joys, and tell my how thou hast escaped the Fury and Malice of thy cruel Guardian. 
No, said Elvira, (who had been a Witness to this happy meeting) you shall not have my Consent to stay any longer here, let us return back to the House, and give her a little Food, and we will hear her Story at home. Elvira, who was never better pleased than when she was doing good, took Clara, and scripp'd her of her Rags, and dress'd her in some of her Clothes, which together with the sudden Quiet of her Mind, made such an advantageous alteration 
[Page 246]
in her, that Octavio no longer doubted but that he had regain'd the Clara he lov'd. And now, said he, since I have recovered thee from the Jaws of Death, come and let us hear by what miraculous Power thou hast been preserved. Clara, who desir'd to make what Addition she cou'd to the satisfaction of her Company, thus began: 
When your Father, said she, had sent you out of the way, he came directly up to me, and finding your Sister Leonora with me, he bid her be gone. She left the Room as he had commanded her; and then he asked me whether I cou'd expect any thing less than Death to be the reward of my Ingratitude. Have I not, said he, brought you up with the same Care and Cost, the same Food and Raiment with my own Child? Have I not indulged your Desires, and made you an equal sharer in all her Pleasures? And in return of all my kindness, have you not seduced my only Son, and drawn him from his Reason and Obedience? These things Clara, said he, you have done, and therefore you must die. I shall give you very little time to prepare, for your Executioner is already come. 
I told him, he laid things to my Charge, which I was very innocent of; but that if my Life cou'd contribute to his Son's good, I most readily and willingly wou'd lay it down; only I desir'd one quarter of an Hour's time, which, with much unwillingness, at last he gave me. I spent it in writing to you, and when I had done, I gave it to Leonora, whose Tears told me, how great her Concern was for me. I took my leave of her, and went with so much Patience to meet my Death, that even your cruel Father dropp'd a Tear. My Butcher, who was to convey me away, had a Boat ready for me, into which I was put; and when he had me a convenient way from Land, he asked what Death I wou'd chuse. I told him Death was welcome to me in any shape, 
[Page 247]
and he might dress him as he thought fit. He asked me, whether I had a mind to live? I told him, no, for I found I was cut out for Misery, and I had rather die at once, than every day. Well, said he, 'tis true, I have undertaken your Death, but I want Courage to go through with it; and if you will promise me not to return to this Place, I will give you Life and Liberty. No, said I, do thy Office, for if I must never see Octavio again, Death will be a more welcome Guest than Life. 
You know not, said the Man, that you must never see him more; Heaven may smile upon you, and remove your Enemy, and then you may be happy in each other: and why shou'd you chuse Death when you may live? 
Tho' I did believe I shou'd live to be very miserable, yet flesh and blood persuaded me to take the Man's Advice; and I gave him my Promise, I wou'd not return while your Father lived; but had great hopes that I shou'd meet with an Opportunity of sending to you. He set me on shore in a Place I knew not, and gave me all the Money he had, which amounted but to a small Sum. When he was gone from me, I wandred about in a Place, which look'd as if it were deserted as well by Animals as human Creatures; and I began to wish, I had not accepted of the Boat-Man's kindness, but had exacted from him a Performance of that Promise he had made your Father, of taking away my Life. I saw myself reduced to the greatest Misery, thrown into a Place which I knew not how to get out of, nor cou'd I meet with any body to give me the least Information or Advice. And thus in the midst of the most melancholy Reflections, I spent my time till almost Night, and then I sate me down to ease my tir'd Limbs; and betwixt the long Walk I had had, and the want of Food, and the thoughts of what I had already suffer'd, and of what was to come, I lost all the little Courage I had left, 
[Page 248]
and sunk under the Weight of my Misfortunes: my Senses forsook me, and I lay a miserable Object, breathless upon the Ground, which was the only Hour's respite I ever had from my Trouble, since I saw you, till this happy Moment. 
When my Senses return'd, I found myself in a House with some of my Fellow-Creatures about me. I cannot say, but that I was very much pleased to find myself remov'd, and desir'd to know to whom my Thanks were due, for the Kindness receiv'd. A good old Gentlewoman, who staid with me and took much care of me, told me, I was indebted to her Nephew for my Life, who going by chance that way, found me dead (as he thought) and, with the help of his Servants, brought me home. 
While she was speaking, the Gentleman came in, and kindly enquired after my Health, to whom I gave the greatest Thanks I was able for the Trouble he had been at. He told me, he had done no more than what Humanity had exacted from him; and I should always find him in a ready posture to do me all the good he could: And from that time he hardly ever left me, but cancell'd all his former Kindnesses, by making me Offers of something greater. I began to be very uneasy at his daily Importunities, and promis'd myself a speedy Deliverance from them: However, I was resolv'd to stay till I had tried for an opportunity offending to you, which in a short time presented itself; for having made enquiry, I at last heard of a Person going to the very Town. I wrote a Letter to you, and gave it to him, and with it a great deal of Caution, how, and to whom he deliver'd it. I desir'd him, if you were not there, to bring it back again, and told him, I would wait where I was for his return, which I accordingly did; and in a few days he came back, and, with my Letter, brought me the following 
[Page 249]
Account, viz. That you had been in great danger of Death, but that you were recover'd, and gone from thence, but no body could tell where. This gave me new Disquiets, and I much feared some desperate Design. In the mean time, the Gentleman, already mention'd, gave me many Reasons to suspect a growing Love. But I, who knew how much I had suffer'd upon such an occasion, was resolv'd to prevent every thing of that nature for the future; and therefore, one Night, when he was out of the way, I went to his Aunt, and told her, my Reception in her House had been so very kind, and the Obligations I had met with so great, that I must have a Soul black with Ingratitude, should I be guilty of the least Action that could make her uneasy; and therefore, Madam, said I, I am come to beg your consent for leaving this place to morrow, which is the only' Method I can take that will contribute to your Quiet. She seem'd very much surpriz'd at my sudden Resolution, and press'd me mightily to know the Cause. I made no great difficulty of gratifying her desire, but told her, I had some reason to fear her Nephew had Thoughts which might be very much to his disadvantage; and that if she were willing to consent to his Desires, yet was not I in a condition to give myself away; and, since, said I, it is impossible for us to answer one another's Wishes, the wisest way will be to part in time. She, who consider'd the ill Consequences of our being together, at last, with some unwillingness, gave me leave to go, and told me, she heartily wish'd that nothing had happen'd to part us. The next day I set out; and when I took my last leave of my generous Benefactress, she gave me a considerable supply of Money, to carry me where I thought fit. I left that place, and was resolv'd to go to the next Town; and with the Money she had given me I intended to hire a Messenger to go again in quest of 
[Page 250]
you: but Fate, which sometimes brings Good out of Evil, sent me in the way of some Persons, who robb'd me of my Money, and, for fear of being discover'd, took me along with them; and for three days, made me take up with their Food, (which was very indifferent) and travel their pace: At last I grew so weak that I could go no further, and then they left me in a condition as bad as ever. 
After I had for some Hours sate still, and recover'd new Spirits, I got up, and went forward: I met with several People, of whom I asked the name of the Country I was in, but could not understand their Answers. At last I came to a Town, and by meer chance met with one of my own Countrymen, who told me where I was. I asked him many Questions, at a distance, concerning your Family, and had an account of every body but you. The Man was very civil, and took a world of pains to teach me the Language of the Place I was in, and promis'd to recommend me to a Friend of his near that Town; but my Disquiets were so great, that I could not rest any where, but was always in a moving posture; and about three days since I found out that Wood where you met with me, and thither did I every day go, to spend that time which hung so heavily on my hands. 
Yesterday I heard two Men talking together, and tho' I could not well understand them, yet I pick'd out as much from what they said, as serv'd to inform me, that some-body's Ruin was intended. I heard something of a Bottle of Poison, and heard one say to the other, If they live, I cannot; and if thou canst but dispatch one of them for me, thou wilt make me thine for ever; if not, I will not live, for I have a Hell in my Breast when I think they are to be happy. The other bid him depend upon his Performance, and told him, their Lives and his Trouble should end in 
[Page 251]
a few Hours. They said a great deal more, which I could either not hear, or not understand; but one of them, with the Promise the other had made him, went away very well satisfy'd, and left his Companion in the Wood; who, as soon as he was gone, whistled, which brought a Woman from among the Trees, with whom he had a long Discourse; but they spoke so low, that I could not make any thing of what they said. At last they came directly where I was, and, with a threatning Look, asked me what I did there. I was verily persuaded they would kill me, for fear I should discover their Designs, tho' I knew not the Persons they were aim'd at: However I thought all Pretences of that kind would be vain, and therefore took another course to save my Life, which I did, by feigning myself deaf. The Man wou'd have secur'd me from telling Tales, but the Woman said, No, since she has not heard us, we will only strip her and leave her; which accordingly she did: and having pull'd off my Clothes, she gave me her Rags in the room of them, the which you found me in. When they had gotten all they could, they went away, and I return'd to the Town, tatter'd as I was; and having neither Money nor Friends, was forced to be content with the Exchange. 
I thought there was no great danger of being stript any more, and therefore ventured into the same place again, which was decreed for that of my Deliverance from all my precedent Torments. And thus have I briefly given you an account of all that has happen'd to me since I saw you till this time. 
Elvira, who had given the greatest attention, declar'd her Satisfaction for Clara's Content; and they mutually yow'd an everlasting Friendship for each other. 

[Page 252]
Lorenzo told Octavio, he hoped he would now be easy, and resolve to spend some time with them, free from his accustomed Sadness. Yes, said he, the Cause is remov'd, and of consequence the Effects must cease: And I have reaped so much benefit from the pains you took to detain me here, that I shall never dispute your Commands; but, whenever you think fit to lay them upon me, I shall with all readiness obey. While they were thus discoursing, Elvira's Maid came in with the News of Sebastian's Death, occasion'd by himself; who, when he found his Projects against Lorenzo and his Cousin fail'd, was resolv'd to keep his Word, and live no longer; and with the very Fellow to that Bottle which he design'd for them, he ended his own wicked Life. 
Elvira, tho' she did not delight in Cruelty, yet was she not much concern'd for the Fate of Sebastian, who had so industrionsly sought her Destruction, but was very glad he had put a stop to all her Fears. This, said she to Clara, is the Person you heard in the Wood, a fuller Account of whom you shall have anon. When this News came, it made a new Face in the whole Family: Elvira's dreadful Apprehensions were at an end; Lorenzo's Fury was appeased, and Emilia put on a joyful Countenance: all things were now changed for the better, and our Lovers were resolved to compleat their own Happiness, by giving themselves to one another. 
Elvira therefore, by Lorenzo's Importunity, dispatch'd away a Servant to her Father with a Letter; and in a few days he himself brought her an Answer to it: He came with the greatest Joy to see his Daughter's Nuptials celebrated. And while Preparations were making for them, Octavio, who was not permitted to go till they were over, writ to his Sister for Intelligence from home; and sent her word how accidentally he had found his Clara; and 
[Page 253]
forgot not to let her know, that her old Friend Lorenzo was well; and that he and Clara were both at his House. In a little time after, he had an Answer from her with the following Account, viz. That her Father had, from the Day he left him, never enjoyed one quiet Hour, but had liv'd in perpetual Torment; and, after a lingring waste, he at last gave up Life. And tho' he would never confess that his own Cruelty was the cause of his Illness, yet his dying words made a plain discovery that his Sufferings sprung from the same Fountain, which had yielded such bitter drink for his Children. About an hour before he died, he called her to him, and taking her by the Hand, Leonora, said he, can you forgive your dying Father? and, without staying for an Answer, turn'd from her and cry'd, Oh Octavio! Oh Clara! and then died. This was chiefly the Sum of Leonora's Letter, save that she told him of her Joy for his good Success in meeting with Clara, whom she thought dead, and how much she longed to see them both. Octavio, tho' he had been used with all the Barbarity in the World by his Father, yet was he most sensibly touch'd for his Death, or rather for his Manner of dying: But Time, that wears out all things, wore out his Trouble too; and he told Clara, he had it in his power now to make her some amends for her Sufferings: and the next day being intended to put an end to the Expectations of Lorenzo and Elvira, they resolv'd to make one Work of it, and compleat their own Happiness too. 
How they slept that Night, I will not pretend to determine; but the next Morning, by the help of a Priest, and a joint Consent of all Parties, they gave their Hands, whose Hearts had been long united to each other. And if we may guess at the future by the present, which is very seldom allow'd, we may conclude them a brace of very happy Pairs. 

[Page 254]
When time had finish'd what those Lovers long had wish'd for, Octavio began to think of returning home again with his dear Clara; but Gonsalvo, who was pleased with the Company, as well as the Story of those two suffering Lovers, did, with the greatest importunity, at last prevail with them to go with him to his own House, where, in a little time, he intended to be, with his Son and Daughter, and Emilia. They stay'd not long before they began to prepare for their Journey, tho' the Weather put a stop for some time to it. At last it grew more favourable, and they set forward. And now, as I have given the Reader an Account of the Treacherous Portuguese; so will I, in the next place, let him know what became of the False Friend, the base Alvaro. 
When our Company of Lovers and Friends had made a Day's Progress in their Journey, towards Night their Way lay between two Hills, which had always been noted for harbouring of Thieves and Murderers: however, their number kept them from any apprehensions of Danger, and they boldly ventur'd through; but when they came towards the middle of this place, they saw, as they thought, a Man lie dead. Gonsalvo, who was next to him, alighted from his Horse, and when he had examin'd a little nearer, he found it to be the remains of his old Acquaintance, the ungenerous Alvaro. This sight rais'd a Pity in Gonsalvo, answering to that sweetness of Temper which he was always Master of: And he no longer look'd upon him as a Man that had used him with the greatest unfairness, but as one that was once his Friend indeed; and as one that was still his Fellow-Creature, and whose present Circumstances call'd aloud for help. He therefore lifted him up, to find out, if possible, the cause of his Insensibility, and with stirring him, displaced a Handkerchief which he had thrust into a large Wound to stop the Blood; the which, when out, 
[Page 255]
gave way to a whole sluice of it; and Gonsalvo thought it impossible for his best Endeavours to contribute towards his Life. But not with standing the small hopes they had of preserving him, they left nothing untry'd that they thought wou'd accomplish the charitable Work they were about. They stopp'd the Wound again with the greatest Care; and because they feared a Horse wou'd, with his slowest Motion, be too severe for his weak Body, they took him up between them, and with a great deal of pains convey'd him to the next Town. When they had him there, they got him to Bed, and sent away for an able Surgeon, who lived within three Miles of the Place they were at, and accordingly came and dress'd his Wound; but said, it was impossible for all Mankind to save his Life. 
After he was dress'd and laid warm, and had some Cordials forced down his Throat, he came a little to himself, and open'd his Eyes, tho' he took no notice of any body: in some hours after he cou'd speak, and began to know Gonsalvo and Elvira, he look'd with his poor old dying Eyes upon 'em both, and said, Fortune was doubly cruel to punish him for the only Fault he had ever been guilty of; and then to make the offended Persons Witnesses to his Fall. Oh! Gonsalvo, said he, I have now met with that Justice which ought to have come from no hand but yours; because I never did that thing that cou'd deserve it from any other Creature. But because you wou'd not revenge your own Wrong, Justice has sent a severer Executioner to do it for you; and I have lived long enough to see, how hateful a Creature a False Friend is. 
What you did to me, said the generous Gonsalvo, I have long since forgiven; and I had much rather see you live to repent of what you have done, than die for the expiation of your Fault; and I wish it were in my power to let you see how serviceable I wou'd 
[Page 256]
be to you, but I fear it is now too late. However, if you have strength enough to support you, I wou'd gladly know how you came into this Condition, and by whose Hand you have been so barbarously used. Oh! said Alvaro, how hard is it to make you a Witness of my Folly? And how justly may you say, I have been served as I deserve, when you hear the Story I have to tell? Yet, you shall hear all my Misfortunes; and tho' you have the least reason for it, yet I am sure you will pity me, when you are inform'd of the hard measure I have had. When you had surpriz'd me in the villainous Design I had against the fair Elvira, whose powerful Charms prevail'd against my Reason; you well remember (no doubt) the shameful Retreat I made upon a more shameful Occasion: and because I knew I cou'd not justify my Fault, I never went about it, but got home as fast as I cou'd, and fate me down to consider, where I shou'd go to hide myself from all that knew me. I was very sure my Folly wou'd spread itself all over the Country, and I expected nothing but Scorn and Reproach from every body, as the just Return of what I had done. I had a half Brother, who was Son to my Mother by a former Husband, he lived within ten Miles of this Place, and thither with all speed I prepared to go. This Brother had a Son, of whom I was extremely fond, and for whom, I did more than even he himself desir'd at that time. But before I had been there six Months my Brother died; and whether he depended upon me to make his Son's Fortune, seeing me so fond of him, or what other reason he had for it, I know not: but he left (contrary to the expectation of most People) all he possibly cou'd, to a Daughter he had married; which was so great a Disappointment to the Son, that it threw him into a deep Melancholy, even to the danger of losing his Senses; and I, who had the greatest love for him, did all I could to divert his grand Concern; 
[Page 257]
and told him, all I had, shou'd at my Death be his; and till then, said I, my Purse shall be at your dispose, and you shall command it at your pleasure. Uncle, said he, what you have offer'd is very kind, and infinitely more than either I expected or deserve from you; but I have a greater cause for my Uneasiness than you know of, and such a one as will, I fear, stick too close to me. That, said I, is your Fault, if you have a Trouble and keep it conceal'd; let me but know it, and if I have a power to remove it, you may depend upon it that I will: and I cannot but think that you have used me ill, in making any thing a secret to me. Oh! do not, said he, lay a Fault to my charge, which I am not guilty of; I have often wished, you knew what still I wanted Courage to tell you; nor is there any Creature upon Earth I love so well, except one Woman, whom I ought to hate, tho' it is not in my power. And this is the Secret which I have so long, against my Will, kept from your knowledge. It is true, I love her to distraction, and she always declared a passion for me; but since my Father died, she looks with the greatest Indifference upon me, and slights and scorns my Love. This is it which racks my Soul, and makes me almost mad. I know I cannot live without her, and I know as well, she will, and does reject me. 
I have, said I, always promised to be a Father to you, and you shall see that I can keep my Word: go to her, and try how far you can move her; bid her call to mind all her old Promises, and remember how much you have done and suffer'd for her: tell her, you will double your Care and Diligence, to make amends for your want of Fortune; and that you have an Uncle both willing and able to do you good; and if this will not move her, try to shake her off: learn to scorn a Woman, that can love and hate at pleasure. 
Oh! said he, I have done all that Man cou'd do, I have try'd all ways and means to persuade her to 
[Page 258]
re-assume her former kindness. Nay, so far have I presumed upon your Goodness, that before you gave me leave, I made her an Offer of your Estate. And what, said I, did she spurn at that? Does her Ambition run higher than such an Offer? No, said he, she was well enough pleased with that, but did not believe me; and told me, till I brought it confirm'd by your hand, I must never see her more. This, said he, is my case; and now is the time to shew that Love which you have always professed to me. Do but make a Settlement upon me of your Estate, after your Death, and then the cruel Fair-one will be kind. 
To this I made a stop, and was not very willing to comply: I did not think it prudence to give away all at demand, and therefore told my Nephew it was a Point that required a little Consideration. But, said I, since you are so far gone that you cannot live without this Woman, you shall yet make her one Proposal more, let her Fortune be what it will, tell her I will double the Sum; and it shall all be settled upon her. Alas! said he, she has no Fortune, tho' she stands so much upon mine; and of all Creatures upon Earth, I know she ought to be my Aversion: but when a Man is laid under a necessity of being wretched and a Fool, what Method must he take, to draw himself out of such pernicious Circumstances? I have no other way but to apply myself to you for help; and if you go back from the Promise you have made me, of being my Father, nay, more than my Father, I must submit to my Fate, and be content for a few Days, which will be the extent of my Life, to bear inexpressible Torments. 
No, said I, thou shalt never die while I have a power to keep thee alive; give me a Pen and Ink, and I will let thee see that I am in love as well as thou art; and that thy Quiet is as dear to me, as that 
[Page 259]
ungrateful proud Woman is to thee. Upon which, he ran without giving me time to cool, and provided me with Implements for my own destruction. 
As soon as he return'd, I took the Pen and gave him an undeniable Title to all that I was Master of. When he had gotten a Promise of all that I could give him, that is, after my Death; he went with the joyful News to his Love, and at his return, seem'd ten times more discompos'd than ever. I, who had always an Eye open towards him, soon found by his Looks that all was not right; and therefore made enquiry into his new Disturbance, but found that all I cou'd say was lost, and I cou'd not find out the bottom of his Design or Uneasiness. He made frequent Visits to this Woman, and never failed to come from her without distraction in his Looks to the greatest degree. 
One day he came to me, and told me, she was gone from home to a Friend's House, and asked me if I wou'd go with him to see her. I told him, I cou'd not look upon her with any esteem, because I did believe she was a Woman of no Worth, and therefore desir'd him to go without me; but he was still eager to have me go; and I, always ready and willing to gratify his Inclinations in every thing, and therefore at last I consented to go with him. We set out in an ill hour, and he (as my Convoy) went first, till he brought me to that Place where you found me; and when he saw the coast clear, he told me he had a Work to do which was very ungrateful to him, but that nevertheless it must be done. What is it? said I, (who never once had the least Suspicion of what he intended to do.) You have, said he, without doubt, often taken notice of my Disorder, which has been occasion'd by what I am now to do. You have, it is true, given me all you have, but not till after your Death: This I have communicated to her I love, and she will not have me till you are dead; 
[Page 260]
and tho' it is with the greatest Reluctance that I go about such a Work, yet, Uncle, said he, you must die! 
This News, as it was the most unwelcome, so was it the most unlook'd for; and I cou'd not forbear reproaching him after this manner: Is it possible, said I, that you can be so overloaded with Ingratitude, to make me such a return for all my Love, and because I have done more for you than your own Father did to save your Life, will you be so barbarously cruel to take mine? What Request did you ever make to me that I refus'd you? Have I not given you all my Wealth, and will not that content you without my Life too? Inhuman Wretch, said I, take that Life thou so much covetest: I never did refuse thee any thing, nor will I now; thy baseness has put me out of love with Life, and I had rather die than live: therefore, said I, make haste and execute thy black Design, that I may at once be rid of Life and thee. Your Reproaches, said he, are justly placed, and you do not condemn me more than I do myself, for an Act which I know, before I commit it, will make me miserable both here and hereafter; therefore give me a Pardon for what I do, since it is Fate's inevitable Decree, and wholly out of my own power to hinder both our Ruins. With that last Word, he drew out a Ponyard, which he brought for that purpose, and without any more Words sheath'd it in my Breast! As soon as he had compleated the Work, he did me the Favour to drop a Tear or two, and so left me as you found me; only I thrust my Handkerchief into my Wound to stop the Blood, which ran out apace; the loss of which, at last depriv'd me of my Senses. But while I lay wallowing in that sad Condition, how often did I reflect upon the Justice of Heaven, that had so severely revenged my Falseness and Ingratitude to you, tho' I did not suppose I shou'd ever have seen you more. But since 
[Page 261]
I have one happy Hour left, in which to make my Peace with you, let me not lose it, but go about that Work, which if left undone, must add to my Pangs at my last gasp. 
I know my expiring Minutes are approaching, which will be doubly welcome when you have sign'd my Pardon yourself, and have procured the same from the beautiful Elvira; the which, when done, will purchase for me a quiet Lodging in my Grave. 
Here he stopp'd, and lived to hear the grieved Gonsalvo and Elvira express their Concern as well as Pardon; and then he grew faint and pale, and in a clammy cold Sweat expir'd. 
When he was dead, Gonsalvo, not like one who had met with ill usage, but like a true Friend, took care of his Funeral, and appear'd a hearty Mourner at it himself; and then made it his next care to find out the ungracious Nephew and his wicked Wife, which was not hard to do; and when he had found them, he stirr'd not till he brought them to condign Punishment: and as he staid to see the Uncle decently interr'd, so he staid to see his Murderers hand'd. From whence he went to his own House with his Company; and as soon as the thoughts of the last sad Scene was a little over, they spent their time as agreeably as so much good Company together cou'd be expected to do. And after a Month given up wholly to Mirth, Octavio and his beloved Clara began their Journey home, where, in a little time, they safely arrived. 
And now I have brought them into a happy posture, I will take my leave of 'em. 
Publication title:and Conditions


 

