 
Madam de Beaumont: Principally founded on Facts, and interspersed with a Variety of beautiful and instructive Incidents
Aubin, Penelope.? A Collection Of Entertaining Histories and Novels, Designed To Promote the Cause of Virtue and Honour. 3 v. London: Printed for D. Midwinter, A. Bettesworth and C. Hitch, [etc.], 1739.
Author:Full text: 
Madam de Beaumont

[Page -]
Title Page 
A COLLECTION Of Entertaining HISTORIES AND NOVELS, DESIGNED To promote the Cause of VIRTUE and HONOUR. Principally founded on Facts, and interspersed with a Variety of beautiful and instructive Incidents. BY Mrs. PENELOPE AUBIN. VOL. III. Containing, The Life of Charlotta du Pont, an English Lady. The Life of Madam de Beaumount, a French Lady.
LONDON: Printed for D. Midwinter, A. Bettesworth and C. Hitch, J. and J. Pemberton, R. Ware, C. Rivington, A. Ward, J. and P. Knapton, T. Longman, R. Hett, S. Austen, and J. Wood. MDCCXXXIX.


[Page -]

Title Page 
THE LIFE OF Madm de Beaumount, A French LADY.

[Page 231]

THE PREFACE TO THE READER. 
The Air has infected some of the neighbouring Nations with the Plague, and swept away the astonished Inhabitants by thousands; but in our Nation it has had a different Effect, it has certainly infected our Understandings: A Madness has for some Time possessed the English, and we are turned Projectors, exceeding the French in extravagant Whimsies, and parted with our Money as easily as if we had forgot that we were to live a Day longer: We are grown false as Jews in Trading; Turks and Italians in Lust; Libertines in Principle, and have more Religions amongst us, and less Sincerity, than the Dutch. The Knavish Part of us are employed at 
[Page 232]
present in getting Money; and the Thoughtless, which are the major Part, in searching for something new to divert their Spleen: The Tales of Fairies and Elves take with them, and the most improbable Things please best. 
The Story I here present the Publick withal is very extraordinary, but not quite so incredible as these. This is an Age of Wonders, and certainly we can doubt of nothing, after what we have seen in our Days: Yet there is one Thing in the Story of Madam de Beaumount very strange; which is, that she, and her Daughter, are very religious, and very virtuous, and that there were two honest Clergymen living at one Time. In the Lord de Beaumount's Story there is yet something more surprising; which is, that he loved an absent Wife so well, that he obstinately refused a pretty Lady a Favour. 
These Circumstances will, I suppose, make the Truth of this Story doubted; but since Men are grown very doubtful, even in those Things that concern them most, I'll not give my self much 
[Page 233]
Trouble to clear their Doubts-about this. Wales being a Place not extremely populous in many Parts, is certainly more rich in Virtue than England, which is now improved in Vice only, and rich in Foreigners, who often bring more Vices than ready Money along with them. He that would keep his Integrity, must dwell in a Cell; and Belinda had never been so virtuous had she not been bred in a Cave, and never seen a Court. 
Wales has produced many brave Men, and been famed for the unshaken Loyalty of its People to their Princes, and Bravery in Fight, scorning to bow their Necks to Slavery, or be conquered; why may it not produce a Woman virtuous and wise, as the Men are couragious? 
In this Story I have aimed at pleasing, and at the same Time encouraging Virtue in my Readers. I wish Men would, like Belinda, confide in Providence, and look on Death with the same Indifference that she did. But I forget that this Book is to be published in London, where Abundance of People 
[Page 234]
live, whose Actions must persuade us, that they are so far from fearing to die that they certainly fear nothing that is to come after dying: Some of these, not speaking good English, will not, perhaps, read this; I shall therefore refer them to their own Countries for virtuous Examples, and present this Story to the true born English, and Antient Britons, to whom I wish Increase of Sense and Virtue, Plenty of Money, good Governors, and endless Prosperity. 
Penelope Aubin.

[Page 235]
THE LIFE OF Madam de Beaumount.
CHAP. I. 
Not far from Swansey, a Sea-Port in Wales, in Glamorganshire, there dwelt a Gentleman whose Name was Mr. Lluelling: He was descended of a good Family, and had a handsom Estate of about 500l. per Annum, all lying together in that Place, on which he lived comfortably and nobly, doing much Good: A Man whose generous Temper, and good Sense, made him beloved by all that knew him: He had been once a Member of Parliament, travelled in his Youth, bred at the University; and, in fine, was a most accomplished Gentleman. It is not therefore to be doubted but that he had many Opportunities of marrying, but he always declined it, and seemed, though ever gallant and complaisant, yet indifferent to the Fair Sex: He was thirty-six 
[Page 236]
Years of Age, and wisely preferred a Country Retirement before noisy Courts and Business: His Person was very handsom, and his Conversation and Mein perfectly genteel and agreeable. This Gentleman, in the Year 1717, one Evening, in the Month of May, was walking alone by the Sea-Side to take the Air, and passing over some little Hills, came at last to the Top of one much higher than the Rest, where standing still to view the lovely Prospect of the neighbouring Fields and Valleys, which were now all in their greatest Pride, adorned with lovely Flowers and various Greens, he saw just opposite another Hill, and in the Side of it a Door open, before which there stood a Maid of such exquisite Beauty and Shape, and in a Habit so odd and uncommon, that he was both extremely surprized and charmed: He stood still, not daring to approach her, lest he should surprize and make her fly from him. She seemed very thoughtful, but at length looking up she saw him, and immediately retired, shutting the Door after her. He continued musing for some Time, and having well observed the Place, returned home, resolving to go back thither early the next Morning: He passed that Night without once closing his Eyes, such strong Impressions had her Beauty made in his Soul that he thought of nothing but the bright Vision. At Break of Day he rose, forbidding his Servants to attend him, and hastened to the Hill, from whence he descended into the Valley, where he sought for a convenient Place to conceal himself, at some little Distance from the Cave, resolving to watch the Opening of the Door, and observe what past there. Having found a low Tree he climbed up 
[Page 237]
into it, and did not wait long before he saw a proper Lad come forth with a Basket on his Arm; he went towards the Town, as if he were going to fetch Provisions: Soon after a Maid Servant came out with a Broom, and swept before the Door of the Cave, dressed in a red Petticoat, a French Jacket and Coif; and in some Time after she went in he saw a Lady, in a rich Night-Gown and Night-Clothes, something in Years, but very beautiful, attended by the young Virgin he had seen the Day before, who was drest in a cherry-colour Silk Petticoat, flowered with Silver, a white Sattin Waistcoat, tied down the Breast with red and Silver Ribbons, her Neck was bare, and her Hair was carelessly braided, and tied up in green Sattin Ribbon: Upon her Head she wore a fine Straw Hat, lined with green and Gold, and a Habit suiting: She appeared to be about fourteen, was fair as Diana; her Eyes were black, her Face oval, her Shape incomparable; she wore a Sweetness and Modesty in her Look, that would have charmed the coldest Breast, and checked the boldest Lover from proceeding farther than he ought. Their Habits, Speech, and Mein, spoke them Persons of Quality and Foreigners. 
'Come, my dear Child, said the Lady, let us take a Walk over the Hills this sweet Morning, it is all the Diversion our sad Circumstance permits us to take.' 'Why, Madam,' answered the fair Belinda, for so was the young Lady called, 'Can there be any Pleasures in the World, exceeding those this sweet Retirement gives us? How often have you recounted to me the Miseries and Dangers that attend a Life led in crowded Cities and noisy Courts: 
[Page 238]
Had you never left the quiet Convent for the World, or changed your Virgin-State, how happy had you been? Our homely Cell, indeed, is nothing like the splendid Places I have heard you talk of; but then we are not half so much exposed to those Temptations you have warned me of: Nothing I dread but only this; should Providence take you from me, I should be so sad and lonely, that I fear my Heart would break.' 'My Child,' the Lady answered, 'Our Lives are in the Almighty's Hands, and we must still submit; you cannot be wretched whilst you are innocent, and I still hope your Father lives, that we shall meet again; that we shall leave this dismal Place, return to France, and live to see you happily disposed of in the World. It is now fourteen Years and six Months since we have lived securely in this lonely Mansion, a tedious Task to me; you know I dare not return to France a second Time, having been once betrayed, and with much Difficulty escaped from my Enemies Hands: I want only some faithful Friend that could go thither for me.' By this Time they were past on so far that Mr. Lluelling could hear no more: He came down from the Tree, and followed gently after, soon overtook, and thus addressed himself to them. 'Ladies, said he, be not surprized, I am a Gentleman of this Place, one who am able to serve you, my Estate and Heart are at your Command; sure I have been very unfortunate in being so long ignorant of my being near you. I have overheard your Discourse, and am come to offer myself and Fortune to you.' Here he threw himself at Belinda's Feet. 'To 
[Page 239]
this fair Creature, said he, I dedicate the Remainder of my Life; I and all that is mine shall be devoted to her Service. Speak, lovely Maid, said he, whose Eyes have robbed me of a Heart, may I presume to hope?' Belinda, much confused, looked first on him, then on her Mother, remaining silent, seized with a Passion she had been a Stranger to till that Moment. The Lady well perceiving it, answered thus, 'Rise, Sir, since Heaven, who has till now preserved us from all Discovery, has permitted you to see us, and, as I conjecture, more than this Time, so that it would be invain to forbid your coming where we are: I consent to accept the Friendship which you offer, not doubting but you are what you appear, a Person of Birth and Fortune.' He bowed, and taking Belinda by the Hand, said, 'Madam, you shall find me all you can wish; let me now have the Honour to wait of you home to your Cell, and there we may be more at liberty to talk.' The Ladies consenting, they went back together to the Cave, the Inside of which was most surprizing to Mr. Lluelling: There he found five Rooms so contrived, and so richly furnished, that he stood amazed. 'In the Name of Wonder, said he, Ladies, by what Inchantment or Art was this Place contrived; from whence is this Light conveyed that illuminates it, which seems without all covered over with Earth, and is within so light and agreeable?' The Lady answered, 'When you have heard our Story you will be satisfied in all. At our landing on this Place, we found a Cave, or little Cell, but not like what it now is; the Seamen belonging to the Ship, that 
[Page 240]
brought us here, contrived and made it what you see; the Damask Beds, Scrutores, and all the Furniture you find here, I brought with me from France. The Light is from a Sky-Light on the Top of the Hill, covered with a Shutter and Grate, when we think fit to shut Day out: A Pair of Stairs leads to it in the Midst of the Rooms which you see lye in a Kind of Round. The Building is contrived an Oval, part lined with some Boards, to defend the Damps from us; but yet in Winter it is no pleasant Dwelling.' "" At these Words he took leave. 
When he was gone, the old Lady, looking on her Daughter, spake thus to her, 'Now, my dear Child, what do you think, Providence provides us here at last a Friend; and, if I am not deceived, a Husband for you: What think you of this Gentleman?' ""I know not what to think, I wish I had not seen him; for if he proves deceitful, as Men, you say, often do, sure I should be unhappy.""Yes, answered she, your Curiosity is just, and I readily agree to all you ask.""Forgive me Heaven, said I, may a Thought like that never enter your Soul; may Zara live and be most happy; gladly I'd die to save your Life, but cannot make a second Choice.""To Wexford, Sir! said he, you cannot reach that to Night: In the Morning I'll put you in the Way; but for to Night, if you'll accept a Lodging in my poor Cottage hard by you are welcome.""By Heaven, said the Marquis, embracing the old Man, you are the Lord-, the Uncle of my dear Belinda, that charming Virgin Fate made me the happy Husband of.""We will go together, said Mr. Lluelling, where we shall fill our expecting Wives Hearts with Joy.""Shew me to her, said Mr. Lluelling, and let us join with her in Sorrow.""Am I alive! and do I wake! she cried, do I behold my dear Lord again! It is impossible! Let me behold him till my Eye-Strings crack, and my Life ends in Rapture! What Thanks, what Returns can I make to Heaven? Let all my Faculties exert themselves, and all united praise my God.""My Dear, said he, I have been married since we parted, believing you were dead; but the Lady was so happy as to die before I was blessed with the Knowledge of your Safety: This is a Daughter of hers by a former Husband; she is as dear to me as Belinda, and I brought her to present her to you, as the greatest Blessing Heaven can send you, next my Life and Belinda's Safety.""Doubt not, said the young Gentleman, "" Mr. Lluelling looked upon him with Jealousy and Rage: 'Is Belinda, said he, so unfortunate to raise me a Rival in every Man of Worth that sees her: Why did she not rather die in the Retreat I found her? Let me but find her once again 
[Page 294]
and she shall never quit my Sight; I'll guard and keep her with such Care, that all my lustful Sex shall never be able to seduce or steal her from me.' Here the old Lord interposed, 'My Friend and Kinsman, said he, you wrong your Lady and my Son; why do you rave? Has he not done nobly by you? If he loved her before he knew that she was pre-engaged, it was no Crime but his Misfortune; and his honourable Treatment of her since, renders him highly deserving your Compassion and Esteem. Come let us wisely search for her, and return to your Home, where she, by this Time, may be arrived. Come, my Son, vanquish the Frailty of your Mind, and then your Body will recover: Belinda has a Sister, fair as herself; a Horse Litter shall be provided to carry you with us to Swansey, there Company, and the lovely Isabella, will, I hope, complete your Cure, and make you happy.' All Things were strait got ready for their Return thither, where being arrived, there was no News of Belinda. And now we shall leave them to go in search of her, and give an Account of what had happened to her. 
CHAP. XI. 
Belinda being on the Road with her Attendants, about ten Miles from Mr. Hide's, the Coach going gently over a dangerous Mountain, was met, and set upon by a Band of ten Robbers, who stopped the Coach, and killed one of the Servants and two of the Horses; took the other two Servants, whom they bound Hand 
[Page 295]
and Foot; then they pulled Belinda out of the Coach, and searching that, found the Sum of 1490l. in Gold, Belinda having used only ten Pounds of the Money Glandore had brought in the Coach, which ten Pounds she had given Mr. Hide's Servants, and the Clowns that rescued her. There was one amongst the Thieves that seemed to be much respected by, and commanded the rest. He put Belinda into the Coach again, and going into it himself, bid her be silent, and no Harm should come to her. One of the Thieves got up into the Coach-Box, and with the four remaining Horses drove the Coach down the Mountain, into a deep Valley; then he drove to a Wood, about two Miles from that Place, and being entered into the thickest Part of it, they stopped, took the Horses out, and left the Coach: The Captain leading Mrs. Lluelling, they came to an old ruined Stone Building, where an old Church was remaining, and part of the House. 
Here these Robbers lived, it being a Place desolate of all Inhabitants, and long since abandoned: Here they locked the two Servants they had taken Prisoners into a Room, and then pulling off their Vizards they saluted Mrs. Lluelling, and told her she was welcome: But, good Heavens! what a Surprize was she under when she saw the Captain of the Robbers Face, and knew him to be a young Gentleman whom she had once seen at Mr. Hide's with Letters, and had been by him caressed in an extraordinary Manner; he soon perceived she knew him. 'Madam, said he, you will not be half so much surprized as you now seem to be, when I tell you that I no sooner saw you at Mr. Hide's, 
[Page 296]
but I loved you; I am a Man nobly born, but unfortunate: We are all Gentlemen, most of us outlawed, except three really Thieves whom we are joined with. We have for our Royal Master's and Religion's Sake been ruined; our Estates, or our Fathers, which was our Birthright, confiscated. We have tried to get our Bread abroad; but, like the poor Cavaliers, were looked on as burthensome wherever we came. Thus made desperate, since Lewis the Fourteenth died, we returned to England; we had most of us a Being when first we came, but our Friends are since impoverished: Our Spirits are great, therefore we have chosen this desperate Way to maintain ourselves. At the harmless Country People's, where we lodge in Couples, we pass for Jacobites and honest Tories, great Men disguised, &c. And when we have got a good Booty, and are flush of Money, they imagine we have received Supplies from abroad. News we often do indeed receive from foreign Parts, but Money never. We would, if a Change came, venture into the World again, and live honestly. We never murder any Man, or rob a poor Traveller: We hold Correspondence with some Servant or other in every Gentleman's Family in the Country, and seldom miss of Intelligence where great Sums of Money are stirring. This Place is our Rendevouz, here we divide our Plunder, and then we separate. You see, Madam, the Confidence I repose in you: I believe you are a Lady of Quality: I admire your Person; I am not your inferior in Birth, and therefore, since I have purchased you with the Hazard of my Life, hope you will not grant 
[Page 297]
me the Possession of your Person with Reluctance; I will maintain you nobly, and run all Dangers to preserve, provide for, and please you.' 
Here one of his Companions entered, saying, 'Sir, Dinner is ready.' He took her by the Hand, she not daring to resist, and led her to a large Room, where was a Table spread, and great Store of cold Meats, with plenty of Wine: she was placed by the Captain at the upper End, and now he and his Companions gave a loose to Joy; Mirth and Good-humour reigned. Belinda could not eat, her Soul was filled with all the dreadful Imaginations of Ruin and Misery; but after they had eaten plentifully, they all withdrew to Sleep, and she and the Captain were left alone: he pressed her earnestly to yield to him, but she refused him with such soft Words and Resolution, that he forbore to treat her rudely, trying to win her to his Embraces gently; for tho' Necessity had made him a Robber, yet it could not make him a Brute; he had been well born and educated, and retained some Remnants of Honour. At Night he left her there, and went out with his Band, leaving with her two Women, who were in Appearance Servants to them: to these she addressed herself, saying, 'You are Women, your Hearts must be tender and pitiful! I am a Wife brought hither by Misfortune, torn from a fond Husband, and a doating Mother. Oh! help me in this great Distress, assist me to escape, and bring me to them, and you shall be rewarded to your Satisfaction.' The eldest of the two replied, 'Madam, we gladly would, but cannot serve you; we are Strangers in this Place like 
[Page 298]
you; we were brought here by Force, blindfold, and taken far from hence: 'tis now eight Months since we were brought to this sad Place. Here we have been ruined, and are made subservient to the Lust and Humour of these desperate Men; we both were Gentlewomen born in France, tho' we speak English: this is my Niece, I was a single Woman, had no Relation whom I thought so well deserved my Love as she. I had a handsome Fortune, and we lived together; and having some Business to go for England, I took her with me: we took along with us our Necklaces, Rings, Clothes, and what we had most valuable to appear in, with Money to defray our Charges. The Vessel we came over in was bound to Southampton, but a Storm drove us upon this Coast: We got into Swansey, and from thence hired Horses to carry us cross the Countries thither, with a Guide. In the Way we were set upon by this Band of Robbers; they stopped us, took us off our Horses, carried us, our Boxes, and all off along with them, and brought us to this Place. Our Guide they bound, and left behind, and now threaten us with Death, if we attempt to leave them. Alas! we know not where to fly to, this Place is destitute of all Inhabitants; besides, some of our Band is always watching near this Wood: we are Strangers to this Country, have no Friends here to make Inquiry after us; we came only to trade, which I often did, and so learned English, and now despair of ever seeing our native Land and Friends again.' 

[Page 299]
This Story nearly touched Mrs. Lluelling's Heart. 'Find a Way for our Escape, said she, and I will procure your safe Return to France.' Here she related to them all her own Adventures, at which they seemed astonished; but when she named her Father and Mother, they fell a weeping and embracing her Knees, declared that they had been Servants to her Grandfather, the Governor of Normandy, the eldest having been many Years House-keeper to her Grand-mother, the Marchioness of Maintenon. 'My dear Lady, said she, what would I refuse to do to serve you? I will set you at Liberty, or die in the Attempt.' Here they consulted what to do, Mrs. Lluelling resolving not to stay there all that Night, fearing the Men's return. There was in the Chapel many Disguises, with which the Robbers used to conceal themselves; of these they chose three, which were old ragged Coats, Shoes, Hats, &c. being Beggars Habits; they took Soft and Grease, and made an odd Kind of Pomatum to rub their Faces and Hands; and thus accoutered, with long oaken Sticks in their Hands, they ventured into the Wood, leaving the dismal Dwelling, empty of Human Creatures. They went on, trembling at every Noise or Rustling of the Trees, seeking a Path, but could discover none: they still went forward, till they had passed through the Wood, and then they discovered the open Country, where they could discern nothing but dreadful high barren Mountains and lonely Valleys, dangerous to pass: they had no Food with them, nor any Money, for the Robbers never left that behind them in that Place. 

[Page 300]
Thus they wandered over the Mountains till Night approached, weary and faint for want of Food; and when it grew dark they could go no farther; back they neither dared, nor would return. Belinda had a Soul too noble to submit to gratify a Villain's Lust. 'Come my Companions, said she, let us lye down on the cold Earth, and trust that Providence that still preserves those that put their Confidence in it; 'tis better far to perish here, than live in Infamy and Misery: 'tis true, our Bodies are enfeebled by the Want of Sustenance, but Sleep will refresh our tired Spirits, and enable us to prosecute our Journey; recommend yourselves to God, his Power is All-sufficient, and when human Means are wanting, can supply our Wants by Miracle.' Here she fell upon her Knees, and cried, 'My God, encrease my Faith, pity our Distress, and send us Help: but if thou hast decreed us to die in this Place support us under the mighty Trial, and give us Grace to be entirely resigned to thy Will, and send thy Angels to receive our Souls.' Her Companions remained silent, admiring the Constancy of Belinda, who seemed then scarce fifteen; they laid down and slept profoundly, Weariness making them rest, tho' under the most racking Apprehensions of the greatest Dangers. At break of Day they arose, but knew not which way to go. 
Thus they wandered three Days and Nights: the Evening of the third Day they discovered, at a considerable Distance, a small Town; but now, alas! they were no longer able to stand. 'My merciful God, cried the almost dying Belinda, must I perish now, when Help is so near? 
[Page 301]
Why do my fainting Limbs refuse to bear me to that Place where Food is to be had, and Drink to quench my raging Thirst, which Water will no longer do? My craving Stomach sickens with the cold Draught, and casts it back again.' Here she fainted, Lisbia and Magdelaine, for those were the Women's Names that accompanied her, looked ghastly upon her, and fell down by her. 
Thus the Almighty tried her Faith and Patience, but designed not she, who fled from Sin, should perish: a She-Goat, with a little Kid, at her recovering from her Trance, stood by her; she catched at it with her eager Hands, the Goat fled, but the Kid she laid hold of, calling to her Companions to assist her, and with a Knife she had in her Pocket, she stabbed it. They licked up the warm Blood, and eat the raw Flesh, more joyfully than they would Dainties at another time, so sharp is Hunger! Refreshed with this, they slept that Night much better, tho' it was now pinching Cold, it being the latter End of October. It snowed hard towards Morning, which so benumbed their Limbs, that they were not able to walk; and here they sat eating their strange Breakfast of raw Flesh, till it was almost Noon, making many vain Attempts to rise and walk: but then the Sun breaking out, they made a shift to creep along towards the Town. But alas! when they thought they were almost there, they met with the River Wie; they saw no Bridge or Boat, and it was impossible for them to get over it on Foot: they went as far as they were able by the River-side, ready to sink down at every Step; at length they sat down and wept sadly. Belinda believing herself near Death, her 
[Page 302]
Constitution being more tender and delicate than the French Women's, with a weak Voice thus exhorted them: 'My Friends, says she, I need not tell you that we are all born to part, and die; I believe our Time is short, and that in few Hours we shall be released from the Miseries of this Life: how necessary is it for us then to improve those few Hours Providence gives us, to prepare for Eternity? My Life has, I thank God, been passed in Retirement; I have not been exposed to the Temptations of the World, yet have I not been free from Errors; you have lived long, I beg therefore that you would apply yourselves earnestly to him that must condemn, or save us, out of whose mighty Hand none can deliver us; and remember that now is the Moment, when eternal Happiness is to be obtained or lost.' 
Here she could proceed no farther, but fell back in a Swoon. At this Instant a poor Fisherman brought his Nets down to dry them on the Shore; and seeing three poor Men together, two of them weeping over him that was lying down, he drew near, and overheard their Complaints. The Man spoke but bad English, but he understood it much better; he found the Person dying was a Woman disguised, because they wrung their Hands, and lamented her, crying, Our dear Lady is dead, what shall we do? The good Man looked about to see if his Boat was coming in, which he had left his Boy to bring thither, who at that Instant brought it to the Shore; the good man leaped into it, and took out a Bottle of Brandy, which he quickly brought, and poured some of it down Belinda's 
[Page 303]
Throat, at which she recovered; the two Women drank likewise. He told them his House, tho' a poor one, was but a Mile farther, and invited them to it; but alas! they were not able to walk thither: he and his Boy were obliged to help them into his Boat, in which he carried them to his Cottage, where they were kindly received by his Wife, to whom the Fisherman told how he found them; the good Woman warmed a Bed, and got them into it, giving them good hot Broth. And now being much refreshed, Belinda told her who she was, and that she lived at Swansey. 'Alas! Madam, said the good Woman, you are a great Way from home, but I will send my Husband thither, to give your Friends Notice.' 'He shall be well rewarded, said Belinda.' The next Morning the Fisherman set out for Swansey, and Belinda fell very sick; Lisbia and Magdelaine recovered soon, but she remained so weak, that she could not walk. In five Days the Fisherman reached Mr. Lluelling's, whom we must now return to speak of. 
CHAP. XII. 
Mr. Lluelling, the Lord-, and his Son, being arrived at Swansey, and finding no News of Belinda, they took all the Methods possible to find her out, but in vain. Mr. Hide was so weak that he could not accompany his Father and Kinsman, who rid out every Day in search of Belinda; the Marquis, who could not part one Hour from his dear Lady, and the lovely Isabella, kept him Company: her Charms 
[Page 304]
soon touched his Soul, and he at last began to imagine, that if Belinda was found again, and happy, he could be so with her Sister. Isabella grew insensibly to be fond of him, her Virgin Heart that never felt Love's Flame before, was warmed, and every Thing he did, was charming in her Eyes: he now was able to walk into the Garden, and tho' very weak, was well bred, obliging, gay, and entertaining. The Marquis was extreme fond of him, and was pleased to see the growing Affection betwixt Mr. Hide and Isabella; nothing was wanting but Belinda's Presence to make this Family completely happy: and now the fortunate Moment came, they so much wished for; the Fisherman arrived, and gave an Account of her being at his House with two Friends, with the Manner of their coming thither: but good Heavens! what Transports filled Mr. Lluelling's and her Mother's Soul? It was late at Night when this News was brought, and impossible to travel by reason of the Snow and Darkness, yet it was with Difficulty that the Marquis restrained his Son from venturing. 
In the Morning they set out at the break of Day, the Marquis, Lord-, and Mr. Lluelling, in the Coach and Six, with five Servants, and the Fisherman well horsed: the old Lady would fain have gone, but her Weakness was such, that she, Mr. Hide, and Isabella, were constrained to stay at home. In three Days Mr. Lluelling and the rest arrived at the Cottage, where he was blessed with the Sight of his dear Belinda; she was in Bed, very weak, but when she heard his Voice, she started up, and when he came to the Bed-side, threw her Arms 
[Page 305]
about his Neck, and both remained silent for some Moments, whilst Tears of Joy shewed their Affection: then he recovering, said a thousand tender Things, such as fully expressed his Fondness. Her Father next embraced her, saying, 'See here, Belinda, your transported Father, who never saw a Day like this! now my God has crowned my Age with Blessings, exceeding Expectation, and almost Belief. What Thanks are we obliged to render our Creator, for the mighty Blessings he has this Day bestowed upon us?' She bowed, but being faint, could scarce reply, when Mr. Lluelling, looking tenderly upon her, said, 'Alas! my Belinda, may I hope that I shall sleep again within those Arms? Has no vile Ravisher usurped my Right, and forced you to his hated Bed? Has not that lovely Body been polluted with his cursed Embraces? tho' I believe your Mind still pure, and that your Soul loathed and abhorred the damning Thought; yet forgive me, if I tremble at the dreadful Idea of so cursed an Act, and long to know the Truth.' Belinda lifting up her Eyes, looked on him with Disdain; 'Are you my Husband? she cried. Do you know me, and can you believe me capable of so vile, so base a Crime, as yielding up my Honour to a Ravisher? No; I would have preferred the cruellest Death to Infamy; or, if by Force compelled, would never have let the impious Villain live for to repeat his Crime; or I would have urged him to destroy me, pursued him with Reproaches, till with my Blood he should have bought his Peace, and washed away my Stain; believe me, I am innocent as when you took me first a Virgin to your 
[Page 306]
Bed, and your Suspicions are unkind.' Here she fainted, he held her in his Arms, asked Pardon for his Rashness, and with fervent Kisses sealed his Peace upon her Lips and Hands. And now they thought of removing her to Swansey: this was a Place not fit for her to stay in, Physicians, and all Things wanting, could not here be had. He had forgot to bring Clothes and Linen thither, and till she was to rise, took no Notice of hers and her Companions Habits; but when he saw Lisbia bring her Beggar's Coat, and other Accoutrements, he, and the Marquis, and Lord -, were much surprized and diverted; and indeed it was a pleasant Sight to see her, and her Female Attendants, so dressed, enter the Coach. 
And now nothing remained but to reward the honest Fisherman and his Wife; Mr. Lluelling gave them ten Pieces of Gold, a Sum they had never been Masters of before in their whole Lives; he told them if they would come to Swansey, he would give them a House to live in. They returned him Thanks, but said they had lived in that Cottage thirty odd Years, and had rather continue there; but if he would give their Boy Jack a new Fisher-boat against he was married, which was to be shortly, they should be bound to pray for him to their Lives End. He agreed to their Request, bidding the Fisherman come to Swansey, and choose such a one as he best liked, and he would pay for it: so they parted thence, and in three Days came in Safety to Swansey, where Belinda was received with excessive Joy by her Mother, and the rest. Isabella admired her Sister's Beauty, tho' somewhat changed by Sickness, when she 
[Page 307]
saw her dressed in her own Clothes. Habits were given to the Women her Attendants, and none but Mr. Hide feared to look upon her; she turned towards him smiling, 'My generous Lover and Friend, said she, look not upon me with such Disorder; believe me, your Treatment of me was so generous and noble, that had I not been disposed of, nor known Mr. Lluelling before, I declare Mr. Hide should have had the first Place in my Esteem: but here is another to be disposed of, my charming Sister, who has, in my Eyes, superior Charms; give her that Heart which I must now refuse, and make her happy. Speak, my dear Sister, said she, shall he be heard? and do you not think him worthy your Love?' Isabella blushed, and the Marchioness answered, 'Her Father and I approving it, I dare answer for my dear Isabella, she will be guided by us.' Mr. Hide made a low Bow. 'My Lord, said he, may I presume to hope so great an Honour as seems here designed me?' 'You may, answered the Marquis, I shall be proud to call you Son.' From this Hour Mr. Hide paid his Addresses to Isabella, and content reigned in every Face, and now Belinda gave an Account of all that had happened to her, from her being taken by the Robbers, to her Arrival at the Fisherman's. 
Two Days after her return home, the two poor Servants that were taken by the Thieves with her, and left locked up in a Room, when she fled from the ruinous House in the Wood, came to Swansey, and told, How having found themselves there alone, and hearing nobody stir, 
[Page 308]
or come to relieve them for two Days and a Night, they resolved to force their Way out, at all Adventures; and searching about to find the best Place to make their Escape at, one of them pulled a great Stone out of the Wall, at which they both crept out; they saw nobody, and rambled all about the House, and ruined Church; there they found several Boxes and Trunks, but most of them empty: examining more curiously, they found a Trap-door in the Chancel, which, lifting up, they ventured to go into a Vault, where was much Treasure, as Plate, Jewels, Money, and Clothes; they took as much as they could well carry in their Pockets, and departed, going over the Mountains till they thought they were safe, and there they lay that Night. The next Day, knowing the Country, they went home to their Master, Mr. Hide's House, and from thence came to Swansey, to give him an Account of all. 
Upon this Information, and Mrs. Lluelling's, Mr. Lluelling resolved to send to the High-Sheriff, and raise the Country, to apprehend this Gang of Thieves; but Belinda entreated him to spare the Captain of the Robbers. 
According to his Desire, the Sheriff gave Orders, and Mr. Lluelling heading the Hue and Cry, Mr. Hide's Servants guiding them, they went directly to the Wood, where they apprehended two of the meanest of the Crew, that is, two real Thieves; who informed them, that the whole Band returning thither two Days after Belinda's Escape thence, and finding the two Women, and Mr. Hide's two Servants gone, they feared being discovered, and had therefore 
[Page 309]
changed their Lodgings, and retired to a Place more secret, and almost impossible to be discovered, taking part of their Treasure with them, and were resolved to go off to Sea, if they were too closely pursued to live longer there; and had left them behind to give Intelligence. They said moreover, that they had looked narrowly upon most of the Mountains for Belinda and the Women, and missing them, hoped they had perished in some of the dismal Valleys, or tumbled down from some Precipice, and killed themselves. 'Our Captain, indeed, said one of them, is a brave Gentleman, and stormed dreadfully at us, saying, he would give his Life willingly to save the Lady, and that if we did not find, and bring her safe back, he would kill us: which we little regarded; for tho' we let him at present head us, and command, 'tis only because he is boldest, and will venture where we don't care to go: but should we be taken and imprisoned, we should not scruple to hang him, or any of his Friends, to save ourselves.' 'Villains that you are, cryed Mr. Lluelling, if possible, I will save him and hang you.' They were pinioned, and the House and Church searched narrowly, where some Plate and Clothes were found, and afterwards put into the Sheriff's Hands, to be restored to the Owners upon publick Notice given, and their appearing; and after much search, being able to discover no more of the Thieves, Mr. Lluelling dismissed the Assistants, and returned home, the two Thieves being first lodged in the Country Goal. Some Days after a Man brought a Letter, directed to the French Marquis, Monsieur de Maintenon; 
[Page 310]
he gave it to one of the Servants, and departed: the Marquis opened it before the Family, and read the Contents, which were as follow. 

My Lord, 
It is with the utmost Confusion I inform your Lordship, that I am the unfortunate Sir C. O. known here only as Captain of a Band of Robbers, amongst whom are Mr. T. B. Sir A. D. the two A---rs, and two Gentlemen more, unknown to you. I am perfectly sensible of the Danger and Sinfulness of this wretched Course of Life I at present follow, and would gladly leave it for any honest Way of getting Bread. I throw my self at your Feet, to implore your Pity and Pardon for the Rudeness I offered Belinda, which I heartily repent of. I know your Generosity and Goodness, and resolve to put my Life into your Hands, by coming to you; and if you think me worthy to live, dispose of me as you please, I will follow you into France, and draw my Sword no more, but for yours, and my Master's Service: if you condemn me to Death, send me to a Prison, and you will take away a Life, that, whilst I continue in Sin, must be burdensome to 
Your Devoted Friend, 
and Old Acquaintance, 
C. O. 

[Page 311]

CHAP. XIII. 
The Marquis was much surprized at reading this Letter, knowing the Gentleman very well: he asked Mr. Lluelling, his Lady, and Lord-Advice; they all agreed, that they would, if possible, save him and the rest. The next Day the Captain of the Robbers came, and Mr. Hide embraced him, and so did the Marquis, Mr. Lluelling, and Lord-; they had the Diversion of his relating to them all his dangerous and bold Adventures: he lay there that Night, next Morning Mr. Lluelling went to the Port, and hired a Vessel to carry him and his Companions to Spain, the Marquis giving him Letters of Recommendation to some great Men there, who were his Friends. He made him deliver up all the Things of Value he had left in his Hands, of his Robberies, and part of Mr. Lluelling's Money, and gave him Bills for a handsome Sum of Money to support him and his Friends, till they could be provided for in the Army, which they desired to be received into: this the Marquis generously gave out of his own Pocket, with some Gold for their present Occasion, till they came to Barcelona, the Bill being drawn on a Merchant there, with whom he held a Correspondence. 
The rest of the unfortunate Gentlemen, who, by their Captain's Advice, were all near at hand, went aboard the Vessel, to which the Marquis, Mr. Lluelling, Lord-, and Mr. Hide, 
[Page 312]
went with the Captain, and there they supped merrily, and parted; the Marquis, and his Son, Lord-, and Mr. Hide, returning home. Next Morning the Ship sailed with a fair Wind, and Wales was delivered from a Band of Gentlemen Thieves, and the unfortunate Gentlemen from hanging. 
And now nothing remained to complete this Family's Felicity, but Isabella's Marriage with Mr. Hide, which in some Days after was consummated; this Wedding was very splendid, all Sorts of innocent Diversion, as Dancing, Feasting, and musical Entertainments, completed the Festival. The Country People had their Share in it, and much pleased the Ladies with their odd Dancing and Songs: the Welch Harpers came from all parts of the Country, blind and Lame, and the Halls echo'd with the trembling Harps. The Marquis, who had heard the most harmonious Concerts of Musick in Rome and France, confessed he had heard nothing more diverting, or seen an Entertainment where there was less Expence, or more true Mirth; saying, 'Were the Welch Language as agreeable and musical as their Harps, I should love to hear them talk, and prefer it to French.' The Marquis and his Lady resolved to continue here till Mrs. Lluelling was brought to bed, which she was in the March following, on the seventeenth of which she was happily delivered of a Son. After she was up again, the Marquis thought of returning to France with his Lady, but desired he might have his little Grandson and his Nurse with him; the Lord- and Mr. Hide likewise resolving to go with 
[Page 313]
him, and settle there, sold their Estates. Mr. Lluelling and Belinda offered to accompany their Father and Mother, and spend the Summer in Normandy. And now it being the Year 1718, on the second of May they went aboard a Ship they had hired to carry them, and arrived safe on the ninth in the Evening, at St. Maloes, from whence they set out for Coutance, and in few Days arrived at the Marquis's Seat, where they were entertained nobly. The two French Women, Lisbia and Magdelaine, went joyfully to their Home, returning many Thanks to the Marquis and Ladies. Mr. Lluelling and his Lady found France so charming that they continue there. 
Thus Providence does, with unexpected Accidents, try Men's Faith, frustrate their Designs, and lead them through a Series of Misfortunes, to manifest its Power in their Deliverance; confounding the Atheist, and convincing the Libertine, that there is a just God, who rewards Virtue, and does punish Vice: So wonderful are the Ways of God, so boundless is his Power, that none ought to despair that believe in him. You see he can give Food upon the barren Mountain, and prevent the bold Ravisher from accomplishing his wicked Design: The virtuous Belinda was safe in the Hands of a Man who was desperately in love with her, and whose desperate Circumstance made him dare to do almost any Thing: But Virtue was her armour, and Providence her Defender. These Trials did but improve her Virtues, and encrease her Faith. 

[Page 314]
Such Histories as these ought to be published in this Age above all others, and if we would be like the worthy Persons whose Story we have here read, happy and blessed with all human Felicity; let us imitate their Virtues, since that is the only Way to make us dear to God and Man, and the most certain and noble Method to perpetuate our Names, and render our Memories immortal, and our Souls eternally happy. 

FINIS.

Publication title:and Conditions


 

