John Buncle (1756-1766)
Amory, Thomas.? The Life Of John Buncle, Esq; Containing Various Observations and Reflections, Made In Several Parts Of the World; and Many Extraordinary Relations. [Etc.]. 2 v. London: Printed for J. Noon, [etc.], 1756.
Author:Full text:John Buncle

[Page -]

Vol. 1Title PageTHE LIFE OF John Buncle, Esq; CONTAINING Various Observations and Reflections, Made in several Parts of the World; AND Many extraordinary Relations.


Fœlix ille animi, Divisque simillimus ipsis,Quem non mendaci resplendens gloria fucoSollicitat, non fastosi mala gaudia luxus.Sed tacitos sinit ire dies, et paupere cultuExigit innocuæ tranquilla silentia vitæ.
Volusenus.
LONDON: Printed for J. Noon, at the White Hart in Cheapside, near the Poultry. M DCC LVI.


[Page -]

DedicationTitle PageTO THE CRITICKS, THIS JOURNAL Is most humbly DEDICATED, BY Their most humble Servant, The Author.

[Page iv]
A PREFACE By Way of DEDICATION.
Gentlemen,This book is not addressed to you, in order to ask your protection for its faults; or in hopes, that such valuable names at the head of it, may preserve it. Things in print must stand by their own worth. But it is offered to you, to let the world see I had that confidence in the goodness of my design in writing it, as to submit it to such great and impartial judges; and that I believe you will report your opinion in such a manner, as to procure me the esteem of the virtuous; when you find that my principal intention in this piece, is to serve the interests of truth, liberty, and religion, and to advance useful learning, to the best of my abilities:---that I have the happiness of mankind at heart, and attempt, in a historical manner, to encrease their knowledge in general; and in particular, to lead them to a pious contemplation and acknowledgment of God's unspeakable wisdom and goodness manifested in the works of the creation; ---shew them the truth of the testimony[Page v]
of Jesus Christ concerning a divine providence, immortality, and a future state; and that as virtue advances and improves, human felicity augments, and becomes a sure prognostick of that fulness of bliss, which men of goodness and integrity are to enjoy, without interruption, frailty, and infirmity, in an unchangeable and everlasting life. This was my scheme. These things I had principally in view, when, to vindicate my character from misrepresentation and idle stories, and to illustrate my memoirs of several ladies of Great-Britain, I sat down to write a true history of my life and notions. You will see at once, gentlemen, that this is the labored part of my work. Were I able to write so as to persuade even a few to alter their way of living, and employ their time for the future, in forming and training up their moral powers to perfection, I should think myself more fortunate and glorious than the greatest genius in the temple of Fame. Indeed, gentlemen, fame or name, in this world, is not the thing I think of. Non est mortale quod opto, I can say with Lactantius: and were it within my power to choose, sure I am, that I would be for ever unknown. But that was impossible. In justice to myself, as before observed, and that tradition might not hand me down, when I[Page vi]
am gone, in that variety of bad and foolish characters, which a malice, that knows nothing of me, whispers while I am living; it was necessary I should tell my own story. The relation was likewise requisite, to render the memoirs before mentioned intelligible. The volumes of that work, which are to be published, would be quite dark, and not so grateful as intended, without a previous account of the author's life.This, gentlemen, is the truth of the case, and as I say as little of myself, in my relation, as I can; and as much for true religion and useful learning, as I was able, I hope, from your rectitude and judgment, that you will get me a fair hearing; and I call upon you as my patrons, and the friends to learning and truth, for your approbation of my good and pious intentions, tho' you should not be able to say one word of any excellencies in my writings. This is all I ask. As I wish well to your cause, the cause of virtue and letters, and have chiefly endeavoured, according to my abilities, to make my readers acquainted with the majesty of the Deity, and his kingdom, and the greatness of his excellency, before whom all the inhabitants of the earth, all powers and principalities, are as nothing; I hope you will, in return, favour me with your best wishes.As to some strange things you will find in the following journal; and a life, in various[Page vii]
particulars, quite contrary to the common course of action, I can assure you, gentlemen, in respect of the strange things, that however wonderful they may appear to you, yet they are; exclusive of a few decorations and figures, (necessary in all works), strictly true: and as to the difference of my life, from that of the generality of men, let it only be considered, that I was born in London, and carried an infant to Ireland, where I learned the Irish language, and became intimately acquainted with its original inhabitants: -that I was not only a lover of books from the time I could spell them to this hour; but read with an extraordinary pleasure, before I was twenty, the works of several of the fathers, and all the old romances; which tinged my ideas with a certain piety and extravagance, that rendered my virtues as well as my imperfections particularly mine:-that by hard measure, I was compelled to be an adventurer, when very young, and had not a friend in the universe but what I could make by good fortune, and my own address:--- that my wandering life, wrong conduct, and the iniquity of my kind, with a passion for extraordinary things and places, brought me into several great distresses; and that I had quicker and more wonderful deliverances from them than people in tribulation generally receive:---that the dull, the formal, and the visionary, the hard-honest man, and[Page viii]
the poor-liver, are a people I have had no connexion with; but have always kept company with the polite, the generous, the lively, the rational, and the brightest freethinkers of this age:-that beside all this, I was in the days of my youth, one of the most active men in the world, at every exercise; and to a degree of rashness, often venturous, when there was no necessity for running any hazards: in diebus illis, I have descended head-foremost from a high cliff into the ocean, to swim, when I could, and ought, to have gone off a rock not a yard from the surface of the deep. -I have swam near a mile and a half out in the sea, to a ship that lay off, went on board, got clothes from the mate of the vessel, and proceeded with them to the next port; while my companion I left on the beach concluded me drowned, and related my sad fate in the town. -I have taken a cool thrust over a bottle, without the least animosity on either side; but both of us depending on our skill in the small sword, for preservation from mischief. - Such things as these I now call wrong, and mention them only as samples of a rashness I was once subject to, as an opportunity happened to come in the way. Let all these things be taken into the account, and I imagine, gentlemen, that what may at first sight seem strange, and next to incredible, will, on considering these particulars, not[Page ix]
long remain so, in your opinion; though you may think the relator an odd man. As to that, I have nothing to say. And if oddness consists in spirit, freedom of thought, and a zeal for the divine unity; in a taste for what is natural, antique, romantic, and wild; in honouring women, who are admirable for goodness, letters, and arts; and in thinking, after all the scenes I have gone through, that every thing here is vanity; except that virtue and charity, which gives us a right to expect beyond the grave; and procures us, in this world, the direction of infinite wisdom, the protection of infinite power, and the friendship of infinite goodness;---then, may it be written on my stone,---Here lies an odd man.Thus much, gentlemen, I thought proper to say to you, that by being acquainted with the particulars relative to the complexion, and design of the author, you might the easier and the better comprehend the various things you will find in the work he dedicates to you.I have only to add, that I wish you all happiness; that your heads may lack no ointment, and your garments be always white and odoriferous: but especially, may you press on, like true critics, towards perfection; and may bliss, glory, and honour, be your reward and your Portion.Barbican,Aug. 1. 1756.
[Page -]

CONTENTS.
[Editorial note: 1Kb][ The following list of numbered, thematic sections is not consistent with the numbered divisions appearing in the text which have been captured as chapter divisions. ]
N. B. What refers to the Notes is distinguished thus ().

Page
1 Introduction
1
2 A reflection on the author's situation and temper
2
3 A college life-and course of reading
3
4 The advantages derived from natural and moral philosophy
6
5 The superior excellence of revelations
11
6 A reflexion on true and false religion
14
7 A method of reading history
16
8 A reflexion on history
18
9 A reflexion on government and religion
22
10 (1. Nothing to be received as points of faith, but what is recorded in the sacred records)

28

11 The history of Miss Noel
28
12 A conversation in relation to the primevity of the Hebrew tongue

36

13 (2. Time of the Jewish captivity)
38
14 (3. Account of Shinaar)
39
15 (4. Of the longevity of the Antediluvians)
41
16 A description of Miss Noel's grotto
43
17 (5. Of Mrs. OHara's and Mrs. Crafton's grottos)

18 An image of Epictetus in this grotto, and the philosophers account of the master science

54

19 Old Mr. Noel's character
56
20 A conversation relating to the miracle at Babel
60
21 (6. Of the words, barbarous, balderdash, and the Welch baldwridd)

63

22 Miss Noel's notion of Hutchinson's cherubim-the Deity-and the preservation of the Hebrew tongue

67

23 (7. An account of Samuel Bochart, and his writings)
69
24 A song, in imitation of the 19th ode of the first book of Horace

71

25 (8. Mr. Francis's translation of this ode)
73

[Page -]

26 A song, called the Solitude
75
27 The death and character of Miss Noel
78
28 A reflexion on the death of Miss Noel
79
29 The author leaves the university, and goes to see his father in the country, but has a miserable reception by means of a step-mother, and on account of a religious difference

82

30 The author leaves his father's house, and returns to Dublin, in order to go to England

86

31 (9. A summary of the author's notion of God and Christ)

86

32 (10. An account of a little public house, called the Conniving-house, on the side of the bay of Dublin; where the author rested three days before he sailed for England)

87

33 The author departs from Ring's-End, and is in a tempest at sea

88

34 Four remarkable things, while the storm lasted
89
35 The passengers land at Whitehaven, and divide- The story of Whitwell, the mate of the ship

92

36 An extraordinary scene
95
37 Miss Melmoth's character
97
38 The author parts with Miss Melmoth at the Bell, on Stanemore, and promises to see her again as soon as possible

98

39 A journey over that part of Stanemore Mountains which belong to Westmorland

99

40 The author arrives by chance at the house of his friend and school-fellow, Jack Price

102

41 The story of Jack Price
104
42 A conversation between Jack Price and the author
112
43 An account of Mrs. Price of Stanemore, and a conversation the author had with her, concerning the nature of the christian religion

119

44 (11, 12, 13. A passage in the prophet Jeremiah explained)
145
45 The author leaves his friend Price, and proceeds up Westmorland Stanemore

163


[Page -]

46 A reflexion on the margin of a fine lake among the fells of Westmorland

166

47 An extraordinary effusion of water from the inside of a mountain

168

48 The cause of this eruption of water, and its sudden increase

169

49 The origin of earthquakes-Of the abyss, etc.
170
50 A reflexion on second causes;-and the reason of tides

173

51 An account of muscular motion
180
52 (14. Of spontaneous motion)
186
53 (15. Of the organization of dead matter)
188
54 An extraordinary loch on the top of a high mountain
191
55 Remarks on the deluge
192
55 (16. An account of Eldine-hole in Derbyshire)
195
56 Account of an assemblage of columnar marble near a river among the fells of Westmorland

198

57 Account of a burning spring
202
58 Account of a swallow, and another unfathomable loch

205

59 An amazing arch through a mountain
206
60 A reflexion on the completion of every wish the moment it is formed

209

61 (17. A passage relative to wishing in the second volume of familiar letters)

211

62 A description of a natural grotto in one of the mountains of Westmorland-Stanemore

214

63 The history of Azora Burcot-her notions, and account of christianity

215

64 (19. Sacrifice of the Massilienses)
234
65 The gardens of Burcot-Lodge
244
66 Account of a pike-pond
246
67 An account of the public worship at Burcot-Lodge
247
68 A further account of Azora-and the history of Mr. Burcot, her father

261

69 (20. A way to make gold.)
262
70 An account of ten extraordinary country girls
270
71 An observation on the understanding of women
273

[Page -]

72 (21. An account of Mrs. Antonia Fletcher, and her colony:-the death of Mrs. Burcot.-Of Stanemore and its villages)

277

73 The author's departure from Burcot-Hamlet-and arrival at a burning fountain

278

74 An account of an extraordinary water-fall among the fells of Westmorland

286

75 An account of great deliverances
287
76 (22. An account of some Irish kings and knights)
288
77 (23. An account of Cormac Maccuillenan, king of Munster, and archbishop of Cashel-The psalter of Tarah, and the psalter of Cashel)

290

78 The case of John Orton
294
79 A reflexion on the bones of John Orton
304
80 (24. An explanation of the author's expression- Partaker of the divine nature by impressions from it)

308

81 A meditation in a closet
311
82 An inventory of the goods the author found at Mr. Orton's Lodge

312

83 The pismires the best preparers of a skeleton
314
84 The author's scheme of a life to be passed at Orton-Lodge
315
85 A description of an extraordinary cave in one of the northern fells of Westmorland

319

86 (25. A description of the cave near Cape-Bonn; which was the grot that Dido and Æneas sheltered themselves in:-and St. Donat's-Cave in Glamorganshire)

320

87 A description of a fine seat in Yorkshire-Stanemore
324
88 An account of the owners of this seat
327
89 A rule to determine the tangents of curve lines
333
90 Microscopical observations on plants, insects, etc.
334
91 A reflexion on the works of nature as seen in the microscope
342
92 An account of the library at Ulubræ
343
93 An account of the book called Vindiciæ contra Tyrannos, ---and who was the author of it

344


[Page -]

94 (29. Some remarks on Charles I.-and account of two sermons preached at his martyrdom)

345

95 (30. Accounts of Du Plessis Mornay-Cardinal Perron-Paul V.-Cardinal d'Ossat- Cardinal Baronius-Isaac Casaubon- Centuriators of Magdebourg---Cardinal Bellarmine -The edict of Nantz-Theodore Agrippa Aubigne

350

96 Account of the author of a book De libertate ecclesiastica
358
97 (32. An account of the writings of the two Scaligers, and of Lewis Cappel
359
98 An account of some subterraneous chambers in one of the mountains of Yorkshire-Stanemore
362
99 (33. Account of Penpark-hole in Gloucestershire)
363
100 (34. Of Pool's-hole in Derbyshire)
367
101 The author's dangerous descent from the top of the mountain he arrived on, to the valley where Mr. Harcourt-lived---and his kind reception by that gentleman

369

102 The author's discourse with Miss Harcourt, in relation to his religion

376

103 (35. Of Dr. Joseph Smith's book, sect. 3.)
378
103 Mr. Harconrt's observation on the discourse I had with his daughter, and his generous offer

385

104 An account of Harriot Eusebia Harcourt, (the lady mentioned in the first volume of my memoirs of several ladies of Great-Britain, p. 324.)- and her paintings

388

105 (37. What a moral Shechinah is)
393
106 A description of a fine chamber in a mountain, and a descent from the chamber to a valley, where the author found his friend Turner's house

402

107 Characters of Miss Turner and Miss Jaquelot
415
108 The author departs from Skelsmore-Vale, and on the side of a mountain, makes a morning reflexion on the rising sun

418

109 (39. The weakness of tradition)
421

[Page -]

110 A fine landscape from the top of a mountain- and the author's arrival at the seat of Mr. Berrisfort; a gentleman who came with him from Ireland in the ship he had his passage in

432

111 A passage in a Greek author: and some reflexions
435
112 The kind reception the author had from Mr. Berrisfort
438
113 Manner of living at Mr. Berrisfort's house-His character-and the characters of Miss Berrisfort and Miss Fox

440

114 The daring spirit of Miss Berrisfort in hunting
441
115 An account of two sad falls in the field in a morning hunt
442
116 A religious conversation between Mr. Berrisfort and the author

444

117 (40. Accounts of Erasmus, Grotius, Limborch, Baxter, Dodwell, and their writings, and of Dr. Sykes---Courcelles---and Polienbourg

453

118 (40. A remark on our little Vaux-halls;-and a word of advice to the rich and gay, who frequent Ranelagh and Vaux-hall)

460

119 (41. Of Simon of the Oratory---Du Pin; and their writings: and of Le Clerc's Sentimens de quelques theologiens)

470

120 (42. Of Mr. Macknight's harmony)
479
120 (43. Of Jone's method of settling the canonical authority of the books of the New Testament--- the sacred classics---Dr. Lardner's credibility of the gospel history; particularly his admirable supplement to the first book of the second part; and Mr. Jacob I live's letter to the bishop of London)

485

121 (44. The case of prophecy---and of Jerom, Ambrose, and the first St. Gregory)

450

122 The author departs from Yeoverin-Green, and arrives at a shaking-bog---the nature of this kind of bog

496

123 A continuation of the journey from the shaking-bog --to Mr. Fleming's house---and the history of Mr. Fleming and his two brothers

498


[Page -]

124 The author arrives at last at Ulubræ, to the great joy of the gentlemen, his friends; and from thence proceeds the next day to Eggleston--- the day after to other places, to enquire for Miss Melmoth, but cannot find her

502

125 By chance however he met with her at Gretabridge, and from that place they set out for Orton-Lodge, where they were married

506



ERRATA.Page 5. line 16. after the words my private tutor, add Mr. John Bruce, who was a bright and excellent man: you will find a large account of him in the first volume of my memoirs of several ladies, p. 7.-P. 6. l. 8. after else, insert till. p. 19. l. 4. gluto read glutto. p. 87. note 10. penult. delightful, read charming, and in the last line delightful, read happy. P. 88 note 10. l. 6. them, read men, l. 2. extreme, read extremely. p. 156. l. 2. dispenation, read dispensation. p. 160. l. 6. dele and. p. 165. l. 9. after subjacent, read clouds. p. 186. note 14. l. 12. sponteneity, read spontaneity. p. 227. last line, part, read past. p. 229. l. 18. after must, insert have. p. 230. l. 1. h, read a. p. 231. l. 11. after more, insert to. p. 232. l. 11. after beauty, insert and. p. 233. l. 1. after principle, put a comma. Ib. l. 14. oblotion, read oblation. p. 234. l. 11. with him, read within us. p. 238. l. 23. thro' read the. p. 239. l. 2. after which, insert he. p. 239. l. 22. derived, read doubted. Ib. 24. one, read our. p. 241. l. 28. eve, read ever. p. 242. l. 21. trial, read trials. p. 264. in the note 5. innovation, read invention. p. 281. in the note, line last, Stanemore, read Boulness. p. 287. l. 13. July, read June, p. 290. in the note 1, Cuillenau, read Mac Cuillenan. p. 319. l. 14. after read during. p. 344. l. 19. marionalotry, read marionolatry. p. 344. l. 20. demonalatry, read demonolatry. p. 359. in the note 6. his, read the. p. 401. l. 17. after the word resurrection, insert in the first volume of my memoirs of several ladies, p. 324. you will find a further account of Mrs. Harcourt. p. 405. l. 12. after no, insert other. p. 512. after No. 5. in the advertisement at the end of the life, (relative to an appendix) add No. 6. Strictures on Mr. Jacob Ilive's letter to the bishop of London. No. 7. Continuation of Mrs. Harcourt's paintings of the visions in the revelations of St. John.
[Page 1]
THE LIFE OF John Buncle, Esq;
Prologue


Nec Vixit Male, qui Natus Moriensque fefellit.
That the Transactions of my Life, and the observations and reflections I have made on men and things, by sea and land, in various parts of the world, might not be buried in oblivion, and by length of time, be blotted out of the Memory of Men, it has been my wont, from the days of my youth to this time, to write down Memorandums of every thing I thought worth noticing, as men and matters, books and circumstances, came in my way; and in hopes they may be of some service to my fellow-mortals I publish them. Some pleasing, and some[Page 2]
surprizing things the Reader will find in them. -He will meet with miscellany thoughts upon several subjects. He will read, if he pleases, some tender stories. But all the relations, the thoughts, the observations, are designed for the advancement of valuable Learning, and to promote whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report.1.2 About fifty years ago the Midwife wheeled me in, and much sooner than half a Century hence, in all human probability, Death will wheel me out. When Heaven pleases, I am satisfied. Life and death are equally welcome, because equally parts of my way to Eternity. My lot has been a swarthy one in this first State, and I am in hopes I shall exchange worlds to advantage. As God, without all peradventure, brought his moral creatures into being, in order to increase their Virtue, and provide suitable happiness for the Worthy, the most unfortunate here may expect immutable felicity at last, if they have endeavoured, in proportion to what power they had, to render themselves useful and valuable, by a sincerity and benevolence of temper, a disinterestedness,[Page 3]
a communicativeness, and the practice of those duties, to which we are obliged by the frame of our Nature, and by the Relations we bear to God, and to the subjects of his government.For my part, I confess that, many have been the failings of my Life, and great the defects of my obedience. But in the midst of all my failings and imperfections, my Soul hath always sympathised with the afflicted, and my heart hath ever aked for the miseries of others. My hand has often relieved, when I wanted the shilling to comfort my self, and when it hath not been in my power to relieve, I have grieved for the scanty Accommodations of others. Many troublesome and expensive offices I have undertaken to do good to Men, and ever social and free have I been in my demeanour, easy and smooth in my address; and therefore, I trust that, whenever I am removed from this horizon, it will be from a dark and cloudy state, to that of joy, light, and full Revelation. This felicitates my every day, let what will happen from without. This supports me under every Affliction, and enables me to mentain a habit of satisfaction and joy in the general course of my Life.2.3 The things of my Childhood are not worth setting down, and therefore I commence my Life from the first month of the[Page 4]
seventeenth year of my Age, when I was sent to the University, and entred a pensioner, tho' I had a larger yearly allowance than any fellow-commoner of my College. I was resolved to read there, and determined to improve my natural faculties to the utmost of my power. Nature, I was sensible, had bestowed no genius on me. This and understanding are only the privilege of extraordinary persons; who receive from Heaven the happy conjunction of qualities, that they may execute great and noble designs, and acquire the highest pitch of excellence in the profession they turn to; if they will take the pains to perfect the united qualities by art, and carefully avoid running into caprice and paradox; the Rocks on which many a Genius has split. But then I had a tolerable share of natural understanding, and from my infancy was teachable, and always attentive to the directions of good sense. This I knew might rise with some labour, to a half merit, tho' it could never gain immortality upon any account: and this was enough for me. I wanted only to acquire such degrees of perfections as lay within the small sphere nature had chalked out for me.3.4 To this purpose I devoted my college-life to books, and for five years that I resided in the University, conversed so much with the dead that I had very little intercourse with the living. So totally had letters[Page 5]
engaged my mind, that I was but little affected towards most other things. Walking and Musick were my favorite recreations, and almost the only ones I delighted in. I had hardly a thought at that time of the foolish choises and pursuits of men; those fatal choices and pursuits, which are owing to false judgments, and to a habit of acting precipitantly, without examining the fancies and appetites; and therefore, very rarely went into the pleasures and diversions which men of fortune in a University too commonly indulge in. My relaxation, after study, was my german-flute, and the conversation of some ingenious, sober friend; generally, my private tutor, who was a bright and excellent man; and if the weather permitted, I walked out into the country several miles. At this exercise, I had often one or other with me; but for the most part, was obliged to go alone. My dog and my gun however were diversion enough on the way, and they frequently led me into scenes of entertainment, which lasted longer than the day. Some of them you will find in this Journal. The history of the beautiful Harriot Noel you shall have by and by.4.5 At present, my scheme requires me to set down the method I pursued in my Readings, and let my Reader know the issue of my studies. -My time I devoted to Philosophy,[Page 6]
Cosmography, Mathematicks, and the Languages, for four years, and the fifth I gave to History.6 The first book I took into my hand, after receiving my note of admission, was the essay of that fine Genius, Mr. Locke, and I was so pleased with this clear and accurate writer, that I looked into nothing else, by reading it three times over, I had made a thorough acquaintance with my own understanding. He taught me to examine my abilities, and enabled me to see what objects my mind was fitted to deal with. He led me into the sanctuary of vanity and ignorance, and shewed me how greatly true knowledge depended on a right meaning of words, and a just significancy of expression. In sum, from the Essay my Understanding received very great benefits, and to it I owe what improvement I have made in the reason given me. If I could, I would persuade all young Gentlemen to read it over and over with great attention, and I am sure they would find themselves very richly rewarded for their pains in reading it. They would acquire that justness and truth of understanding, which is the great perfection of rational Beings.5.7 When I had done, for a time, with this admirable Essay, I then began to study the first principles of things, the structure of[Page 7]
the Universe, the contexture of human bodies, the properties of beasts, the virtues of plants, and the qualities of metals, and was quite charmed with the contemplation of the beautiful order, and wise final causes of nature in all her laws and productions. The study had a delightful influence on the temper of my mind, and inspired into it a love of order in my heart, and in my outward manners. It likewise led me to the great first Cause, and in repeated views of harmony, wisdom and goodness in all the works of nature, rivited upon my mind a fixed conviction, that all is under the administration of a general Mind, as far remote from all malice as from all weakness, whether in respect of understanding or of power. This gave me a due affection towards the infinitely perfect Parent of Nature, and as I contemplated his glorious Works, I was obliged in transports to confess, that he deserved our love and admiration. This did also satisfy me, that whatever the order of the world produces, is in the main both just and good, and of consequence, that we ought in the best manner to support whatever hardships are to be endured for virtue's sake: that acquiescence and complacency with respect to ill accidents, ill men and injuries, ought to be our part under a perfect administration; and with benignity and[Page 8]
constancy we must ever act, if there be a settled persuasion, that all things are framed and governed by a universal mind. -Such was the effect the study of Natural Philosophy had upon my Soul. It set beyond all doubt before me the moral perfection of the Creator and Governor of the Universe. And if this Almighty God, I said, is perfect Wisdom and Virtue, does it not follow, that he must approve and love those who are at due pains to improve in wisdom;-and what he loves and delights in, must he not make happy? This is an evident truth. It renders the cause of virtue quite triumphant.6.8 But upon Ethicks or Moral Philosophy I dwelt the longest. This is the proper food of the Soul, and what perfects her in all the virtues and qualifications of a gentleman. This Science I collected in the first place from the antient sages and philosophers, and studied all the moral writers of Greece and Rome. With great pleasure I saw, that these immortal authors had delineated as far as human reason can go, that course of life which is most according to the intention of nature, and most happy; had shewn that this universe, and human nature in particular, was formed by the wisdom and counsel of a Deity, and that from the constitution of our nature various duties arose:-that since God is the original independent Being,[Page 9]
compleat in all possible perfection, of boundless power, wisdom and goodness; the Creator, Contriver, and Governor of this world, to whom mankind are indebted for innumerable benefits most gratuitously bestowed; we ought to manifest the most ardent love and veneration toward the Deity, and worship him with affections of Soul suited to the pre-eminence and infinite grandeur of the original Cause of all; ought to obey him, as far as human weakness can go, and humbly submit and resign ourselves and all our interests to his will; continually confide in his goodness, and constantly imitate him as far as our weak nature is capable. This is due to that original most gracious Power who formed us, and with a liberal hand supplies us with all things conducive to such pleasure and happiness as our nature can receive: -That in respect of mankind, our natural sense of right and wrong points out to us the duties to be performed towards others, and the kind affections implanted by nature, excites us to the discharge of them: that by the law of our constitution and nature, justice and benevolence are prescribed; and aids and an intercourse of mutual offices required, not only to secure our pleasure and happiness, but to preserve ourselves in safety and in life: that the law of nature, or natural right, forbids every instance of injustice,[Page 10]
a violation of life, liberty, health, property; and the exercise of our honourable, kind powers, are not only a spring of vigorous efforts to do good to others, and thereby secure the common happiness; but they really procure us a joy and peace, an inward applause and external advantages; while injustice and malice, anger, hatred, envy, and revenge, are often matter of shame and remorse, and contain nothing joyful, nothing glorious: In the greatest affluence, the savage men are miserable:-that as to ourselves, the voice of reason declares, that we ought to employ our abilities and opportunities in improving our minds to an extensive knowledge of nature in the sciences; and by diligent meditation and observation, acquire that prudence, justice, temperance, and fortitude, which should constantly govern our lives: -That solid prudence, which abhors rashness, inconsiderateness, a foolish self-confidence, and craft, and under a high sense of moral excellence, considers and does what is really advantageous in life: -That justice, which constantly regards the common interest, and in subserviency to it, gives to each one whatever is due to him upon any natural claim: -That temperance, which restrains and regulates the lower appetites, and displays the grace and beauty of manners: -And that fortitude, which[Page 11]
represses all vain and excessive fears, gives us a superiority to all the external accidents of our mortal state, and strengthens the soul against all toils or dangers we may be exposed to in discharge of our duty; as an early and painful death with virtue and honour, is highly preferable to the longest ignominious life, and no advantages can be compared in point of happiness with the approbation of God, and of our own hearts.That if in this manner we live prepared for any honourable services to God, our fellows, and ourselves, and practice piety toward God, good-will toward men, and immediately aim at our own perfection, then we may expect, notwithstanding our being involved in manifold weaknesses and disorders of soul, that the divine goodness and clemency will have mercy on such as sincerely love him, and desire to serve him with duty and gratitude; will be propitious and placable to the penitents, and all who exert their utmost endeavours in the pursuits of virtue: And since the perfection of virtue must constitute the supreme felicity of man, our efforts to attain it, must be effectual in obtaining compleat felicity, or at least some lower degree of it.7.9 This beautiful, moral Philosophy I found scattered in the writings of the old[Page 12]
theist philosophers, and with great pains reduced the various lessons to a system of active and virtuous offices: but this I knew was what the majority of mankind were incapable of doing; and if they could do it, I saw it was far inferior to revelation. Every Sunday I appropriated to the study of reveled Religion, and perceived as I read the sacred records, that the Works of Plato, and Cicero, and Epictetus, and all the uninspired sages of antiquity, were but weak rules in respect of the divine oracles. It is the mercy and power of God in the triumphs of grace, that restores mankind from the bondage and ignorance of idolatry. To this the sinner owes the conversion of his soul. It is the statutes of the Lord that rejoyce the heart, and enlighten the eyes. What are all the reasonings of the philosophers to the melody of that heavenly voice which crys continually, Come unto me all ye that travel and are heavy laden, and I will refresh you. - And what could their lessons avail without those express promises of grace and spiritual assistance, which the blood of the new covenant confirms to mankind? The philosophy of Greece and Rome was admirable for the times and men: but it admits of no comparison with the divine lessons of our holy religion, and the charter of God's pardon granted to us by his blessed[Page 13]
Son. Beside, the philosophers were in some degree dark and doubtful in respect of death and futurity; and in relation to this world, there is not a power in their discourses, to preserve us from being undone by allurements, in the midst of plenty, and to secure our peace against the casualties of fortune, and the torments of disappointments; to save us from the cares and sollicitudes which attend upon large possessions, and give us a mind capable of relishing the good things before us; to make us easy and satisfied as to the present, and render us secure and void of fear as to the future. These things we learn from revelation, and are informed by the sacred records only, that if we are placed here in the midst of many fears and sorrows, and are often perplexed with evils in this world; yet they are so many warnings not to set up our rest here, but to keep a stedfast eye upon the things which God has prepared for those who love him. It is the gospel informs us, there is another scene prepared for the moral world, and that justice only waits to see the full proof of the righteousness, or unrighteousness of men: that that scene will open with the judgment seat of Christ, and we shall either receive glory and immortality, if we have obeyed the calls of grace[Page 14]
to virtue and holiness;-or, be doomed to the most dreadful miseries, if we reject the counsel of God, and live quite thoughtless of the great concerns of eternity. These considerations made me prefer reveled religion, in the beginning of my rational life. The morality of the antient philosophers I admired. With delight I studied their writings, and received, I gratefully confess, much improvement from them. But the religion of our blessed Lord I declared for, and look on the promised Messiah as the most consummate blessing God could bestow, or man receive. God having raised up his Son Jesus, sent him to bless you, in turning every one of you from your iniquities. And would men but hear and obey this life-giving Redeemer, his Gospel would restore reason and religion to their rightful authority over mankind; and make all virtue, and true goodness, flourish in the earth.8.10 But I must observe that, by the religion of the New Testament, I do not mean any of those modern schemes of religion, which discover the evident marks and signatures of superstition and enthusiasm, or of knavery and imposture; those systems which even miracles cannot prove to be true, because the pieties are absurd, inconsistent and contradictory. The notions that are not[Page 15]
characterized by the reason of things, and the moral fitness of actions, I considered as repugnant to the veracity, wisdom, and goodness of the Almighty, and concluded, that that only could be christian religion, which beared the visible marks and signatures of benevolence, social happiness, and moral fitness, and was brought down from heaven to instruct mankind in the worship of One eternal mind, and bring them to repentance, and amendment of life. This was the religion I found in my Bible. I saw with pleasure, as I thoughtfully went through the divine pages, that natural religion is the foundation and support of revelation;-supplies the defects of nature, but never attempts to overthrow the established principles of it; -casts new light upon the dictates of reason, but never overthrows them. Pure theism, and Christ the appointed Mediator, Advocate, and Judge, by a commission from God the Father, to me appeared to be the Gospel;- and the directions of the holy Spirit, to believe in one supreme independent first cause, and worship in spirit and truth this one God and Father of All, in the name of Christ Jesus; as the disciples of the Messiah; to copy after the life of our blessed Saviour, and to the utmost of our abilities, obey all his commands. -This was the religion I found in the writings of the apostles, and I then[Page 16]
determined to regard only this Gospel-doctrine.9.11 The manner of my studying Cosmography and Mathematicks is not worth setting down, as there was nothing uncommon in it. In the one I only learned to distinguish climates, latitudes, and the four divisions of the world; the provinces, nations, kingdoms and republicks comprized therein, and to be able to discourse upon them: -And in the other, I went no further than to make myself a master of vulgar and decimal arithmetick, the doctrine of infinite series, and the application of algebra, to the higher geometry of curves. Algebra I was charmed with, and found so much pleasure in resolving its questions, that I have often sat till morning at the engaging work, without a notion of its being day till I opened the shutters of my closet. I recommend this study in particular to young gentlemen, and am satisfied, if they would but take some pains at first to understand it, they would have so great a relish for its operations, as to prefer them many an evening to the clamorous pleasures; or, at least, not be uneasy for being alone now and then, since their algebra was with them.10.12 In reading history, (my last years principal employment, during my residence in college), I began with the best writers of antient history and ended with modern times, epochs, centuries, ages; the extent of empires,[Page 17]
kingdoms, common-wealths; their progress, revolutions, changes and declensions; the number, order, and qualities of the Princes, that have reigned over those states and kingdoms, their actions military and civil; the characters and actions of the great men that flourished under them; and the laws, the arts, learning and manners, I carefully marked down, and observed not only how the first governments were formed, but what the progress was of industry and property, which may be called the generative principle of empire.When I had done with antient History, I sat down to the best modern stories I could get, and read of distant nations before I began to study my country's constitution, history and laws. When I had finished the histories of France, and Spain, and Italy, and Germany, and many more, then I turned to Great-Britain, and in the first place took a view of the English constitution and government, in the antient books of the common law, and some more modern writers, who out of them have given an account of this government. From thence I proceeded to our History, and with it joined in every King's reign the laws then made. This gave me an insight into the reason of our statutes, and shewed me the true ground upon which they came to be made, and what[Page 18]
weight they ought to have. By this means, I read the history of my country with intelligence, and was able to examine into the excellence or defects of its government, and to judge of the fitness or unfitness of its orders and laws. By this method I did likewise know enough of the law for an English gentleman, tho' quite ignorant of the chicane, or wrangling and captious part of the law, and was well acquainted with the true measure of right and wrong. The arts how to avoid doing right, and to secure one's self in doing wrong, I never looked into.11.13 Thus did I read History, and many noble lessons I learned from it; just notions of true worth, true greatness, and solid happiness. It taught me to place merit where it only lies, not in birth, not in beauty, not in riches, not in external shew and magnificence, not in voluptuousness; but, in a firm adherence to truth and rectitude; in an untainted heart, that would not pollute or prostitute its integrity in any degree, to gain the highest wordly honours, or to ward off the greatest worldly misery. This is true magnanimity: And he alone can be truly happy, as well as truly great, who can look down with generous contempt upon every thing that would tempt him to recede in the smallest degree from the paths of rigid honesty, candour and veracity.
[Page 19]


   Es Modicus Voti, presso lare, dulcis Amicis;Jam nunc astringas; jam nunc granaria laxes;Inque luto fixum possis transcendere Nummum;Nec gluto sorbere Salivam Mercurialem?Hæc mea sunt, teneo, cum vere dixeris: EstoLiberque ac Sapiens, Prætoribus ac Jove dextro.Sin tu, cum fueris Nostræ paulò ante farinæ,Pelliculam veterem retines, et fronte politusAstutam Vapido servas sub pectore Vulpem;Quæ dederam suprà, Repeto, funemque Reduco.Nil tibi concessit Ratio: digitum exere peccas,Et quid tam parvum est? Sed nullo thure litabis,Hæreat in Stultis brevis ut semuncia Recti.Hæc miscere Nefas:--
Are you moderate in your desires, frugal, and obliging to your friends? Do you know when to spare, and when to be liberal, as occasion requires? And can you give a check to your avarice, in spight of all temptations which are laid in your way? Can you refrain from being too greedy in your pursuits after riches? When you can sincerely affirm that you are master of your self, and of all these good qualities, then you are free indeed,[Page 20]
deed, and wise, by the propitious power of Jove and the Prætor.But if you retain the old habits of a slave, and harbour ill qualities, under the hypocritical appearance of virtue, you are as much a slave as ever, while thus enslaved to your vices. Philosophy gives no indulgence to vice-makes no allowance for any crime. If in wagging your finger, you acted against reason, you transgress, tho' the thing be of so trifling a nature. All the sacrifices you can offer will never pass for a dram of rectitude, while your conduct is faulty. Wisdom is incompatible with folly.

When to be bountiful, and when to spare,And never craving, or oppress'd with care;The baits of gifts, and money to despise,And look on wealth with undesiring eyes;When thou canst truly call these virtues thine,Be wise and free by Heav'n's consent and mine.   But thou, who lately of the common strain,Wert one of us, if still thou dost retainThe same ill habits, the same follies too,Gloss'd over only with a saint-like show,Then I resume the freedom which I gave,Still thou art bound to vice, and still a slave.Thou canst not wag thy finger, or beginThe least slight motion, but it tends to sin.[Page 21]

How's this? Not wag my finger, he replies?No, friend; not fuming gums, nor sacrifice,Can ever make a madman free, or wise.Virtue and vice are never in one soul:A man is wholly wise, or wholly is a fool.
This is the great lesson, that virtue alone is true honour, true freedom, and solid, durable happiness. It is indeed its own reward. There are no satisfactions equal to, or comparable with virtuous, rational exercises; nor can virtuous dispositions, and well improved moral powers be rewarded, or receive happiness suited to their nature, but from their exercises and employments about proper objects. And as virtue gives pleasure here in proportion to the improvements it makes, far beyond all that mere sense can yield, in the most advantageous circumstances of outward enjoyment; so in a state to come, it shall be so placed as its improvements require, that is, be placed in circumstances that shall afford it business or employment proportioned to its capacity, and by means thereof the highest satisfaction. -Such a basis for building moral instructions upon we find in history. We are warned in some pages to avoid the miseries and wretchedness which many have fallen into by departing from reason or virtue: - And in others, we meet with such virtuous characters and actions, as set forth the charms[Page 22]
of integrity in their full lustre, and prove that virtue is the supreme beauty, the supreme charm: that in keeping the precepts of moral rectitude, we secure a present felicity and reward; and have a presage of those higher rewards which await a steady course of right conduct in another world. - Glorious, natural virtue! Would mankind but hearken to its voice, and obey its dictates, there would be no such Beings as Invaders, Delinquents, and Traitors, in this lower world. The social inclinations and dispositions would for ever prevail over the selfish appetites and passions. The law of benevolence would be the rule of life. The advancement of the common good would be the work of every man.12.14 The case however is; that the generality of mankind are too corrupt, to be governed by the great universal law of social nature, and to gratify ambition, avarice, and the like, employ a cunning or power, to seize the natural rights and properties of others: and therefore, to natural virtue grounded on the reason and fitness of things, in themselves, the first and principal mean of securing the peace and happiness of society, it was necessary to add two other grand principles, civil government and Religion, and so have three conducible means to social happiness. These three are necessary to the being of a publick, and of[Page 23]
them, religion as I take it, is of the first consequence; for the choice few only mind a natural Virtue, or benevolence flowing from the reason, nature, and fitness of things; and civil government cannot always secure the happiness of mankind in particular cases: but Religion, rightly understood, and fixed upon its true and proper foundation, might do the work, in conjunction with the other two principles, and secure the happiness of Society. If mankind were brought to the belief and worship of one only true God, and to a sincere obedience to his Will, as we have it discovered in Revelation, I think, appetite and passion would cease to invade by violence or fraud, or set up for private interest in opposition to the publick stock or common good. But, alas! Religion is so far from being rightly understood, that it is rendered by some explainers the most doubtful and disputable thing in the world. They have given it more phases than the moon, and made it every thing, and nothing, while they are screaming or forcing the people into their several factions. This destroys the moment of Religion, and the multitude are thereby wandered into endless mazes and perplexities, and rendered a hairing, staring, wrathful rabble; instead of being transformed into such christians as filled the first church at[Page 24]
Jerusalem; christians who acknowledged and worshipped God the Father Almighty, in the name of Christ, that is, under a belief of that authority and power which the Father of the Universe has, for the good of mankind, conferred upon him; and in humility and meekness, in mortification and self-denial, in a renunciation of the spirit, wisdom, and honours of this world, in a love of God, and desire of doing God's will, and seeking only his honour, were by the Gospel made like unto Christ. Golden Religion! Golden Age! The Doctrine of Christianity was then a Restoration of true Religion: the practice of Christianity, a Restoration of human Nature. But now, alas! too many explainers are employed in darkening and making doubtful the reveled Will of God, and by paraphrases, expositions, commentaries, notes, and glosses, have almost rendered revelation useless. What do we see in the vast territories of Popery, but a perfect Diabolism in the place of the religion of our Lord; doctrines the most impious and absurd, the most inconsistent and contradictory in themselves, the most hurtful and mischievous in their consequences; the whole supported by persecution, by the sophistry of learned knaves, and the tricks of jugling priests? And if we turn our eyes from these regions of imposture and cruelty, to the realms of protestants, do we not find some learned christian critics and expositors[Page 25]
reducing the inspired writings to a dark science? without regard to the nature and intrinsick character of their doctrines, do they not advance notions as true and divine, which have not one appearance of divine Authority; but, on the contrary, mililitate with the reason of things, and the moral fitness of actions; and are so far from being plain and clear, free from all doubtfulness, or ambiguity, and suited to the understandings and capacity of men, that the darkness of them renders such pretended revelations of little service; and impeaches the veracity, wisdom, and goodness of God? Alas! too many explainers are clamorous, under the infallible strength of their own persuasions, and exert every power to unman us into believers. How the apostles argued for the great excellency and dignity of Christianity is not with them the question; so far as I am able to judge from their learned writings; but the fathers, and our spiritual superiors have put upon the sacred writings the proper explications; and we must receive the truth as they dispense it to us. This is not right, in my conception. I own it does not seem to answer the end of the Messiah's coming, which was to restore Reason and Religion to their rightful authority over mankind; and to make all virtue, and true goodness, flourish in the earth; the most perfect blessing to[Page 26]
be sure that God could bestow on man, or man receive from God. This blessing we must miss, if human authority is to pin us down to what it pleases to call sense of scripture, and will set up the judgment of fallible men as the test of Christianity. The Christian Laity are miserable indeed, if they be put under an obligation to find that to be truth which is taught by these Leaders. In truth, we should be unhappy men, with a revelation in our churches and our closets, if the leaders had a right to make their own faith pass for the faith of the Apostles; or, if we refused it, might lance the weapons of this world at their people. What must we do then as true Christians? I think for my self, that we ought to form our judgment, in matters of faith, upon a strict, serious and impartial examination of the Holy Scriptures, without any regard to the judgment of others, or human authority whatever: that we ought to open the sacred records, without minding any systems, and from the reveled word of God learn that, Christianity does not consist in a jingle of unintelligible sounds, and new fundamentals, hewn out by craft, enthusiasm, or bigotry, and maintained with an outrage of uncharitable zeal, which delivers Christians to the flames of an eternal hell: but that, the heavenly religion of our Lord consists in looking on the promised Messiah,[Page 27]
as the most consummate blessing God could bestow, or man receive; and that Jesus is that Messiah; in acting according to the rules of the Gospel, and in studying to imitate God, who is the most perfect understanding nature, in all his moral perfections; in becoming the Children of God by being (according to our capacity) perfect as he is perfect, and holy as he is holy, and merciful as he is merciful; and in our whole moral behaviour as like to him as possible.In a word, to flee injustice, oppression, intemperance, impurity, pride, unmercifulness, revenge:-to practise justice, piety, temperance, chastity, humility, beneficence, placability -to turn from our iniquities to the practice of all virtue: and through the alone mediation of the only-begotten Son of God, believe in and worship the eternal mind, the one supreme Spirit, in hope of a glorious immortality, through the sanctification of the Holy Ghost: -These are the things the Lord came down to teach mankind. For the New Testament itself then we must declare, and look upon it as the only guide, or rule of faith. It is now the only deliverer of the declarations of our Lord: And the rule in our enquiry is, that every thing necessary to be believed by a Christian, is in those Books not left to be gathered by consequences, or implications; but the things necessary to[Page 28]
obtain the favor of God promised to Christians are expressly declared. If this was not the case---if things absolutely necessary were not expressly proclaimed to be so, the gospel revelation would be no rule at all (1) 15 .13.16 But it is time to tell my reader the story of the beautiful Harriot Noel, which I promised in my third memorandum. -[Page 29]
On the glorious first of August, before the beasts were roused from their lodges, or the[Page 30]
birds had soared upwards, to pour forth their morning harmony; while the mountains and the groves were overshadowed by a dun obscurity, and the dawn still dappled the drowsy East with spots of grey; in short, before the sun was up, or, with his auspicious presence, began to animate inferior nature, I left my chamber, and with my gun and dog, went out to wander over a pleasant country. The different aspects and the various points of view were charming, as the light in fleecy rings encreased; and when the whole flood of day descended, the imbellished early scene was a fine entertainment. Delighted with the beauties of this morning, I climbed up the mountains, and travelled through many a valley. The game was plenty, and for full five hours, I journeyed onward, without knowing where I was going, or thinking of a return to college.About nine o'clock however I began to grow very hungry, and was looking round to see if I could discover any proper habitation[Page 31]
to my purpose, when I observed in a valley, at some distance, something that looked like a mansion. That way therefore I moved, and with no little difficulty, as I had a precipice to descend, or must go a mile round, to arrive at the place I wanted: down therefore I marched, got a fall by the way that had like to have destroyed me, and after all, found it to be a shed for cattle. The bottom however was very beautiful, and the sides of the hills sweetly copsed with little woods. The valley is so divided, that the rising sun gilds it on the right hand, and when declining, warms it on the left.

                                         -Veniens dextrum latus aspiciat Sol,Lævum discedens curru fugiente vaporet.
A pretty brook here likewise babbles along, and even Hebrus strays not round Thrace with a purer and cooler stream.

Fons etiam rivo dare nomen idoneus, ut necFrigidior Thracam nec purior ambiat Hebrus.
17 In this sweet and delicious solitude, I crept on for some time, by the side of the murmuring stream, and followed as it winded through the vale, till I came to a little harmonick building, that had every charm and[Page 32]
proportion architecture could give it. It was situated on a rising ground in a broad part of the fruitful valley, and surrounded with a garden, that invited a pensive wanderer to roam in its delightful retreats, and walks amazingly beautiful. Every side of this fine spot was planted thick with underwood, and kept so low, as not to prevent a prospect to every pleasing remote object.Finding one of the garden doors left open, I entred immediately, and to screen my self from the scorching beams of the sun, got into an imbowered way, that led me to a large fountain, in a ring or circular opening, and from thence, by a gradual, easy, shady ascent, to a semicircular amphitheatre of ever-greens, that was quite charming. In this were several seats for ease, repast, or retirement; and at either end of it a rotunda or temple of the Ionick order. One of them was converted into a grotto or shell-house, in which a politeness of fancy had produced and blended the greatest beauties of nature and decoration. The other was a library, filled with the finest books, and a vast variety of mathematical instruments. Here I saw Miss Noel sitting, and so intent at writing, that she did not take any notice of me, as I stood at the window, in astonishment looking at the things before me, and especially at the[Page 33]
amazing beauties of her face, and the splendor of her eyes; as she raised them now and then from the paper she writ on, to look into a Hebrew Bible, that lay open upon a small desk before her. The whole scene was so very uncommon, and so vastly amazing, that I thought my self for a while on some spot of magic ground, and almost doubted the reality of what my eyes beheld; till Miss Noel, by accident, looked full at me, and then came forward to the open window, to know who I wanted.Before I could answer, I found a venerable old gentleman standing by my side, and he seemed much more surprized at the sight of me than his daughter was; for, as this young lady told me afterward, she guessed at once the whole affair; seeing me with my gun and dog, in a shooting dress; and knew it was a natural curiosity brought me into the garden, and stoped me at the window, when I saw her in such an attitude, and in such a place. -This I assured them was the truth of my case, with this small addition however, that I was ready to perish for want of something to eat; having been from four in the morning at hard exercise, and had not yet broke my fast. -If this be the case, says the good old man, you are welcome, Sir, to Eden-Park, and you shall soon have the best breakfast our house affords.
[Page 34]
Upon this Mr. Noel brought me into his house, and the lovely Harriot made tea for me, and had such plenty of fine cream, and extraordinary bread and butter set before me, that I breakfasted with uncommon pleasure. The honour and happiness of her company rendered the repast quite delightful. There was a civility so very great in her manner, and a social goodness so charming in her talk and temper, that it was unspeakable delight to sit at table with her. She asked me a number of questions relating to things and books, and people, and there was so much good sense in every inquiry, so much good humour in her reflections and replications, that I was intirely charmed with her mind; and lost in admiration, when I contemplated the wonders of her face, and the beauties of her person.When breakfast was over, it was time for me to depart, and I made half a dozen attempts to rise from my chair; but without her laying a rosy finger on me, this illustrious maid had so totally subdued my soul, and deprived me of all motive power, that I sat like the renowned Prince of the Massagetes, who was stiffened by inchantment in the apartment of the Princess Phedima, as we read in Amadis de Gaul. This Miss Noel saw very plain, and in compassion to my misfortune, generously threw in a hint[Page 35]
now and then, for a little farther conversation to colour my unreasonable delay. But this could not have been of service much longer, as the clock had struck twelve, if the old gentleman, her father, had not returned to us, and told me, he insisted on my staying to dine with him; for he loved to take a glass after dinner with a facetious companion, and would be obliged to me for my company. At present (Mr. Noel continued) you will excuse me, Sir, as business engages me till we dine: but my daughter will chat the hours away with you, and shew you the curiosities of her library and grott. Harriot will supply my place.This was a delightful invitation indeed, and after returning my hearty thanks to the old gentleman for the favour he did me, I addressed my self to Miss Noel, when her father was gone, and we were walking back to the library in the garden, and told her ingenuously, that tho' I could not be positive as to the situation of my soul, whether I was in love with her or not, as I never had experienced the passion before, nor knew what it was to admire a woman; having lived till that morning in a state of indifference to her sex; yet, I found very strange emotions within me, and I was sure I could not leave her without the most lively and afflicting inquietude. You will pardon, I[Page 36]
hope, Madam, this effusion of my heart, and suffer me to demonstrate by a thousand and a thousand actions, that I honour you in a manner unutterable, and from this time, can imagine no happiness but with you.18 Sir, (this inimitable maid replied) you are an intire stranger to me, and to declare a passion on a few hours acquaintance, must be either to try my weakness, or because you think a young woman is incapable of relishing any thing but such stuff, when alone in conversation with a gentleman. I beg then I may hear no more of this, and as I am sure you can talk upon many more rational subjects, request your favor, to give me your opinion on some articles in this Hebrew Bible you see lying open on the table in this room. My father, Sir, among other things he has taken great pains to instruct me in, for several years that I have lived with him in a kind of solitary state, since the death of my mother, whom I lost when I was very young, has taught me to read and understand this inspired Hebrew book; and says we must ascribe primævity and sacred prerogatives to this language. For my part, I have some doubts as to this matter, which I dare not mention to my father. Tell me, if you please, what you think of the thing.
[Page 37]
Miss Noel, (I answered) since it is your command, that I should be silent as to that flame your glorious eyes and understanding have lighted up in my soul, like some superior nature, before whom I am nothing, silent I will be, and tell you what I fancy on a subject I am certain you understand much better than I do. My knowledge of the Hebrew is but small, tho' I have learned to read and understand the Old-Testament in the Ante-Babel language.My opinion on your question is, that the Biblical Hebrew was the language of Paradise, and continued to be spoken by all men down to, and at the time of Moses writing the pentateuch, and long after. Abraham, tho' bred in Chaldea, could converse freely with the Egyptians, the Sodomites, and the King of Gerar; nor do we find, that any variety of speech interrupted the commerce of his son Isaac with the several nations around, or that it ever stopt Jacob in his travels. Nay, the Israelites, in their journey through the desarts of Arabia, (after they had been some hundred years in Egypt) tho' joined by a mixt multitude, and meeting with divers kinds of people, had not corrupted their language, and were easily understood, because it was then the universal one. The simplicity and distinctness of the Hebrew tongue preserved its purity so long[Page 38]
and so universally. It could not well be degenerate till the knowledge of nature was lost, as its words consist but of two or three letters, and are perfectly well suited to convey sensible and strong ideas. It was at the captivity (2) 19 , in the space of seventy years, that the Jews, by temporising with the ignorant victors, so far neglected the usage of their own tongue, that none but the scribes or learned men could understand Moses's books.This I confess (Miss Noel said) is a plausible account of the primævity and pre-eminence of the sacred Hebrew, but I think it is not necessary the account should be allowed as fact. As to its being the language in Paradise, this is not very probable, as a compass of 1800 years must have changed the first language very greatly by an increase of words, and new inflections, applications, and constructions of them. The few first inhabitants of the earth were occupied in few things, and wanted not a[Page 41]
variety of words; but when their descendants invented arts and improved sciences, they were obliged to coin new words and technical terms, and by extending and transferring their words to new subjects, and using them figuratively, were forced to multiply the senses of those already in use. The language to be sure was thus gradually cultivated, and every age improved it. All living languages are liable to such change. I therefore conclude, that the language which served the first pair would not do for succeeding generations. It became vastly more copious and extensive, when the numbers of mankind were great, and their language must serve conversation and the ends of life, and answer all the purposes of intelligence and correspondence. New words and new terms of speech, from time to time were necessary, to give true ideas of the things, actions, offices, places, and times peculiar to the Hebrews. Even Hutchinson allows there was some coinage, some new words framed. We find in the latter prophets words not to be met with in the Pentateuch: and from thence we may suppose, that Moses used words unknown to Nimrod and Heber: and that the men at Shinaar (3) 20 had words which the people before[Page 38]
the flood were strangers to. Even in the seventeenth century, there must have been a great alteration in the language of Adam; and when the venerable Patriarch and his family came into a new world, that was in a different state from the earth before the deluge, and saw a vast variety of things without precedent in the old world, the alterations in nature and diet, must introduce a multitude of new terms in things of common experience and usage; as, after that amazing revolution in the natural world, not only the clouds and meteors were different, and the souls that were saved had a new and astonishing view of the ruin and repair of the system; but Noah did then begin to be an husbandman; he planted a vineyard; he invented wine; and to him the first grant was given of eating flesh. All these things required as it were a new language, and the terms to be sure with mankind encreased. The Noachical language must be quite another thing after the great events of the flood. Had Methuselah, who conversed many years with Adam, who received[Page 41]
from his mouth the history of the creation and fall, and who lived 600 years with Noah, to communicate to him all the knowledge he got from Adam; had this Antediluvian wise man been raised from the dead to converse with the postdiluvian fathers, or even with Noah, the year he died, that is, 350 years after the flood; is it not credible, from what I have said, that he would have heard a language very different from that tongue he used in his conversations with Adam, even in the 930th year of the first man (4) 21 ? I imagine, Methuselah[Page 42]
would not have been able to have talked with Noah, at the time I have mentioned, of the circumstances that then made the case of mankind, and of the things of common experience and usage. He must have been unable to converse at his first appearance.What you say, Madam, (I replyed) is not only very probable, but affords a satisfaction unexpected in a subject on which we are obliged, for want of data, to use conjectures. I offer up to your superior sense the notion, that the Scriptures were wrote in the language of Paradise. Most certain it is, that even in respect of our own language, for example, the subjects of Henry the 1st, would find it as much out of their power to understand the English of George the 1st's reign, were they brought up again, as the ordinary people of our time are at a loss to make any thing of the English written in the 1st Henry's reign. But when I have granted this, you will be pleased to inform me, how Abraham and his sons conversed and commerced with the nations, if the Hebrew was not the universal language in their time? If the miracle at Babel was a confusion of tongues, as is generally supposed, how did the holy family talk and act with such distant Kings and people? Illuminate me, thou glorious girl in this dark article, and be my teacher in Hebrew learning, as I flatter[Page 43]
my self you will be the guide and dirigent of all my notions and my days. Yes, charming Harriot, my fate is in your hands. Dispose of it as you will, and make me what you please.You force me to smile, (the illustrious Miss Noel replyed) and oblige me to call you an odd compound of a man. Pray, Sir, let me have no more of those romantic flights, and I will answer your question as well as I can; but it must be at some other time. There is more to be said on the miracle at Babel, and its effects, than I could dispatch between this and our hour of dining, and therefore, the remainder of our leisure till dinner, we will pass in a visit to my grotto, and in walking round the garden to the parlour we came from. To the grotto then we went, and to the best of my power I will give my reader a description of this splendid room.22 In one of the fine rotunda's I have mentioned, at one end of the green amphitheatre very lately described, the shining apartment was formed. Miss Noel's hand had covered the floor with the most beautiful Mosaic my eyes have ever beheld, and filled the arched roof with the richest fossil gems. The Mosaic painting on the ground was wrought with small coloured stones or pebbles, and sharp pointed bits of glass, measured[Page 44]
and proportioned together, so as to imitate in their assemblage the strokes and colour of the objects, which they were intended to represent, and they represented by this lady's art, the Temple of Tranquillity, described by Volusenus in his dream.23 At some distance the fine temple looks like a beautiful painted picture, as do the birds, the beasts, the trees, in the fields about it, and the river which murmurs at the bottom of the rising ground; Amnis lucidus & vadosus in quo cernere erat varii generis pisces colludere. So wonderfully did this genius perform the piece, that fishes of many kinds seem to take their passtime in the bright stream. But above all, is the image of the philosopher, at the entrance of the temple, vastly fine. With pebbles and scraps of glass, all the beauties and graces are expressed, which the pencil of an able artist could bestow on the picture of Democritus. You see him as Diogenes Laertius has drawn him, with a philosophical joy in his countenance, that shews him superior to all events. Summum bonorum finem statuit esse lætitiam, non eam quæ sit eadem voluptati, sed eam per quam animus degit perturbationis expers; and with a finger, he points to the following golden inscription on the portico of the temple:-
[Page 45]


Flagrans sit studium bene merendi de seipso,   Et seipsum perficiendi.
That is, By a rectitude of mind and life, secure true happiness and the applause of your own heart, and let it be the labour of your every day, to come as near perfection as it is possible for human nature to get. This Mosaic piece of painting is indeed an admirable thing. It has a fine effect in this grotto, and is a noble monument of the masterly hand of Miss Noel.Nor was her fine genius less visible in the striking appearance of the extremely beautiful shells and valuable curiosities, all round the apartment. Her father spared no cost to procure her the finest things of the ocean and rivers from all parts of the world, and pebbles, stones, and ores of the greatest curiosity and worth. These were all disposed in such a manner as not only shed a glorious lustre in the room, but shewed the understanding of this young lady in natural knowledge.In one part of the grot, were collected and arranged the stony coverings of all the shell-fish in the sea, from the striated patella and its several species, to the pholades in all their species: and of those that live in the fresh streams, from the suboval limpet or umbonated patella and its species, to the triangular,[Page 46]
and deeply striated cardia. Even all the land-shells were in this collection, from the pomatia to the round-mouthed turbo. The most beautiful genera of the sea-shells, intermixed with fossil corals of all the kinds; with animal substances become fossil; and with copper-ores; agates; pebbles, pieces of the finest marmora and alabastritæ, and the most elegant and beautiful marcasites, and chrystals, and spars. These filled the greatest part of the walls, and in classes, here and there, were scattered, as foils to raise the lustre of the others, the inferior shells.Among the simple sea-shells, that is, those of one shell, without a hinge, I saw several rare ones, that were neither in Mrs. O'Hara's, nor in Mrs. Crafton's grottos in Fingal, as I observed to those ladies (5) 24 . The shells I mean are the following ones.
[Page 47]
25 1. The sea-trumpet, which is in its perfect state, nine inches long, an inch and half diameter at its mouth or irregular lip, and the opening at the small end about half an inch. The surface is a beautiful brown, prettily spotted with white, and the pipe has fourteen annular ridges that are a little elevated, and of a fine purple colour.26 2. The admiral is vastly beautiful, a voluta two inches and a half long, and an inch in diameter, at the head, from whence it decreases to a cone with an obtuse point. The ground colour is the brightest, elegant yellow, finer than that of Sienna marble, and this ground so variegated with the[Page 48]
brightest colours, that a little more than a third part of the ground is seen. Broad fasciæ, the most charmingly varied, surround it, and the clavicle is the most elegant of objects in colours, brightness and irregularities. There is a punctuated line of variations that runs in the centre of the yellow fascia, and is wonderfully pretty. This beautiful East Indian sells at a great price.27 3. The crown imperial is likewise extremely beautiful. This voluta is four inches long, two in diameter at the top, and its head adorned with a charming series of fine tubercles, pointed at the extremities. The ground is a clear pale, and near the head and extremity of the shell, two very beautiful zones run round. They are of the brightest yellow, and in a manner the most elegant, are variegated with black and white purple. It is an East Indian.28 4. The Hebrew letter, another voluta, is a fine curiosity. It is two inches in length, and an inch and a quarter in diameter at the top. It is a regular conic figure, and its exerted clavicle has several volutions. The ground is like the white of a fine pearl, and the body all over variegated with irregular marks of black, which have a near resemblance of the Hebrew characters. This elegant shell is an East Indian.
[Page 49]
29 5. The white voluta, with brown and blue and purple spots. This very elegant shell, whose ground is a charming white, is found on the coast of Guinea, from five to six inches in length, and its diameter at the head often three inches. It tapers gradually, and at the extremity is a large obtuse. Its variegations in its spots are very beautiful, and its spots are principally disposed in many circles round the shell.30 6. The butterfly is a voluta the most elegant of this beautiful genus. Its length is five inches in its perfection, and two and a half broad at the head. The body is an obtuse cone: the clavicle is pointed, and in several volutions. The ground is the finest yellow, and beautifyed all over with small brown spots, in regular and round series. These variegations are exceeding pretty, and as this rare East Indian shell has beside these beauties three charming bands round the body, which are formed of large spots of a deep brown, a pale brown, and white, and resemble the spots on the wings of butterflies, it is a beautiful species indeed. The animal that inhabits this shell is a limax.31 7. The tulip cylinder is a very scarce and beautiful native of the East-Indies, and in its state of perfection and brightness of colour, of great value. Its form is cylindric, its length four inches, and its diameter two and[Page 50]
a half, at its greatest increase. Its clavicle has many volutions, and terminates in an obtuse point. The ground colour is white, and its variegations blue and brown. They are thrown into irregular clouds in the most beautiful manner, and into some larger and smaller spots. The limax inhabits this fine shell.I likewise saw in this grotto the finest species of the purpura, the dolia, and the porcellana. There was of the first genus the thorny woodcock:-of the second, the harp shell:-and of the third, the argus shell.32 8. The thorny woodcock is ventricose, and approaches to an oval figure. Its length, full grown, is five inches; the clavicle short, but in volutions distinct; and its rostrum from the mouth twice the length of the rest of the shell. This snout and the body have four series of spines, generally an inch and half long, pointed at the ends, and somewhat crooked. The spines lie in regular, longitudinal series. The mouth is almost round, but the opening is continued in the form of a slit up the rostrum. The colour of this American, and extremely elegant shell, is a tawny yellow, with a fine mixture of a lively brown, and by bleaching on the coasts, it gets many spots of white.33 9. The beautiful harp is a Chinese; three inches and half long, and two and a half[Page 51]
in diameter. The shell is tumid and inflated, and at the head largest. It has an oblong clavicle in several volutions, pointed at the extremity, and the other extreme is a short rostrum. The whole surface is ornamented with elevated ribs, that are about twice as thick as a straw, and as distant from each other as the thickness of four straws. The colour is a fine deep brown, variegated with white and a paler brown, in a manner surprizingly beautiful.34 10. The extremely elegant argus is from the coast of Africa, and is sometimes found in the East-Indies. Its length, in a state of perfection, is four inches and a half; its diameter three. It is oblong and gibbous, has a wide mouth, and lips so continued beyond the verge, as to form at each extremity a broad and short beak. The colour is a fine pale yellow, and over the body are three brown fasciæ: but the whole surface, and these fasciæ, are ornamented with multitudes of the most beautiful round spots, which resemble eyes in the wings of the finest butterflies. The limax inhabits this charming shell. This creature is the sea-snail.35 11. The concha of Venus was the next shell in this young lady's collection that engaged my attention. One of them was three inches long, and two and a half in diameter. The valves were convex, and in longitudinal[Page 52]
direction deeply striated. The hinge at the prominent end was large and beautifully wrought, and the opening of the shell was covered with the most elegant wrinkled lips, of the most beautiful red colour, finely intermixed with white; these lips do not unite in the middle, but have slender and beautiful spines round about the truncated ends of the shell. This shell of Venus is an American, and valued by the collectors at a high rate.36 12. But of all the curious shells in this wonderful collection, the hammer oyster was what I wondered at most; it is the most extraordinary shell in the world. It resembles a pickax, with a very short handle and a long head. The body of the shell is in the place of the handle of the instrument, and is four inches and a half long, and one inch and a half in diameter. What answered to the head of the pickax was seven inches long, and three quarters of an inch in diameter. This head terminates at each end in a narrow obtuse point, is uneven at the edges, irregular in its make, and lies crosswise to the body: yet the valves shut in the closest and most elegant manner. The edges are deeply furrowed and plated, and the lines run in irregular directions. The colour without is a fine mixture of brown and purple; and within, a pearly white, with a tinge of[Page 53]
purple. This rare shell is an East-Indian, and whenever it appears at an auction is rated very high. I have known ten guineas given for a perfect one.With a large quantity of these most beautiful shells, which are rarely seen in any collections, and with all the family of the pectens, the cardiæ, the solens, the cylindri, the murexes, the turbines, the buccina, and every species of the finest genera of shells, Miss Noel formed a grotto that exceeded every thing of the kind I believe in the world; all I am sure that I have seen, except the late Mrs. Harcourt's in Richmondshire; which I shall give my Reader a description of, when I travel him up those English Alpes. It was not only, that Miss Noel's happy fancy had blended all these things in the wildest and most beautiful disposition over the walls of the rotunda; but her fine genius had produced a variety of grotts within her grotto, and falling waters, and points of view. In one place, was the famous Atalanta, and her delightful cave: and in another part, the Goddess and Ulysses's son appeared at the entrance of that grott, which under the appearance of a rural plainness had every thing could charm the eye: the roof was ornamented with shell-work; the tapestry was a tender[Page 54]
vine; and limpid fountains sweetly purled round.37 But what above all the finely fancyed works in Miss Noel's grotto pleased me, was, a figure of the Philosopher Epictetus, in the centre of the grott. He sat at the door of a cave, by the side of a falling water, and held a book of his philosophy in his hand, that was written in the manner of the antients, that is, on parchment rolled up close together. He appeared in deep meditation, and as part of the book had been unwrapped and gradually extended, from his knee on the ground, one could read very plain, in large Greek characters, about fifty lines. The English of the lesson was this.The Master Science.
All things have their nature, their make and form, by which they act, and by which they suffer. The vegetable proceeds with perfect insensibility. The brute possesses a sense of what is pleasurable and painful, but stops at mere sensation. The rational, like the brute, has all the powers of mere sensation, but enjoys a farther transcendent faculty. To him is imparted the master-science of what he is, where he is, and the end to which he is destined. He is directed by the canon of reason to reverence the dignity[Page 55]
of his own superior character, and never wretchedly degrade himself into natures to him subordinate. The master science (he is told) consists in having just ideas of pleasures and pains, true notions of the moments and consequences of different actions and pursuits, whereby he may be able to measure, direct or controul his desires or aversions, and never merge into miseries. Remember this, Arrianus. Then only you are qualified for life, when you are able to oppose your appetites, and bravely dare to call your opinions to account; when you have established judgment or reason as the ruler in your mind, and by a patience of thinking, and a power of resisting, before you choose, can bring your fancy to the test of truth. By this means, furnished with the knowledge of the effects and consequences of actions, you will know how you ought to behave in every case. You will steer wisely through the various rocks and shelves of life. In short, Arrianus, the deliberate habit is the proper business of man; and his duty, to exert upon the first proper call, the virtues natural to his mind; that piety, that love, that justice, that veracity, that gratitude, that benevolence; which are the glory of human kind. Whatever is fated in that order of incontroulable events, by which the divine power preserves and adorns[Page 56]
the whole, meet the incidents with magnanimity, and co-operate with chearfulness in whatever the supreme mind ordains. -Let a fortitude be always exerted in endurings; a justice in distributions; a prudence in moral offices; and a temperance in your natural appetites and pursuits. -This is the most perfect humanity. This do, and you will be a fit actor in the general drama; and the only end of your existence is the due performance of the part allotted you.38 Such was Miss Noel's grotto, and with her, if it had been in my power to choose, I had rather have passed in it, the day in talking of the various fine subjects it contained, than go in to dinner; which a servant informed us was serving up, just as I had done reading the above recited philosophical lesson. Back then we returned to the parlour, and there found the old Gentleman. We sat down immediately to two very good dishes, and when that was over, Mr. Noel and I drank a bottle of old Alicant. Tho' this Gentleman was upwards of eighty, yet years had not deprived him of reason and spirits. He was lively and sensible, and still a most agreeable companion. He talked of Greece and Rome, as if he had lived there before the Æra of christianity. The court of Augustus he was so far from being a stranger[Page 57]
to, that he described the principal persons in it; their actions, their pleasures, and their caprices, as if he had been their contemporary. We talked of all these great characters. We went into the the gallery of Verres. We looked over the antient theatres. Several of the most beautiful passages in the Roman poets this fine old man repeated, and made very pleasant, but moral remarks upon them.The cry (said he) still is as it was in the days of Horace-

   O cives, cives, quaerenda pecunia primum,   Virtus post nummos.-Unde habeas nemo quaerit, sed oportet habere.Quorum animis, a prima lanugine, non insedit illud?
And what Catullus told his Lesbia, is it not approved to this day by the largest part of the great female world?

   Vivamus, mea Lesbia, atque amemus,   Rumoresque Senium Severiorum,   Omnes unius aestimemus assis.   Soles occidere et redire possunt,   Nobis, cum semel occidit brevis lux,   Nox est perpetua una dormiendo.Hæc discunt omnes ante Alpha & Beta puellæ.
The girls all learn this lesson before their[Page 58]
A. B. C: And as to the opinion of the poet, it shews how sadly the Augustan age, with all its learning, and polite advantages, was corrupted: and as Virgil makes a jest of his own fine description of a paradise or the Elysian fields; as is evident from his dismissing his hero out of the ivory gate; which shews he was of the school of Epicurus; it is from these things manifest, that we can never be thankful enough for the principles and dictates of reveled religion: we can never sufficiently adore the goodness of the most glorious Eternal for the gospel of Jesus Christ; which opens the unbounded regions of eternal day to the virtuous and charitable, and promises them a rest from labour, and ever blooming joys: while it condemns the wicked to the regions of horror and solid darkness; that dreadful region, from whence the cries of misery for ever ascend, but can never reach the throne of mercy. -O heavenly religion! designed to make men good, and for ever happy: that preserves the dignity of human nature-Guards and encreases virtue-And brings us to the realms of perfect reason and excellent glory.But (continued this fine old Gentleman) Tibulius has ever pleased me in the description of his mistress:
[Page 59]


Illam quicquid agit, quoquo vestigia flectit.Componit furtim subsequiturque decor;Seu solvit crines, fusis decet esse capillis;Seu compsit comptis est veneranda comis.Urit seu Tyria voluit procedere pulla;Urit seu nivea candida veste venit.Talis in æterno felix Vertumnus OlympoMille habet ornatus, mille decenter habet.
These elegant lines contain an inimitably beautiful description of outward grace, and its charming effects upon all who see it. Such a grace, without thinking of it, every one should strive to have, whatever they are doing. They should make it habitual to them. Quintilian seems to have had these fine lines in view, in his description of outward behaviour: Neque enim gestum componi ad similitudinem saltationis volo, sed subesse aliquid, in hac exercitatione puerili, unde nos non id agentes, furtim decor ille discentibus traditus subsequatur. Cap. 10.---I am not for having the mein of a gentleman the same with that of a dancing-master; but that a boy while young, should enter upon this exercise, that it may, communicate a secret gracefulness to his manner ever after.In this manner, did the old gentleman and I pass the time, till the clock struck five, when Miss Noel came into the parlour again, and her father said he must retire, to take[Page 60]
his evening nap, and would see me at supper; for with him I must stay that night. Harriot, make tea for the Gentleman. I am your servant, sir; and he withdrew. To Harriot then, my life and my bliss, I turned, and over a pot of tea was as happy, I am sure, as ever with his Statira sat the conqueror of the world. I began to relate once more the story of a passion, that was to form one day, I hoped, my sole felicity in this world, and with vows and protestations affirmed, that I loved from my soul. Charming angel, I said, the beauties of your mind have inspired me with a passion, that must encrease every time I behold the harmony of your face; and by the powers divine, I swear to love you, so long as Heaven shall permit me to breath the vital air. Bid me then either live or die, and while I do live, be assured, that my life will be devoted to you only. -But in vain was all this warmth. Miss Noel sat as unmoved as Erycina on a monument, and only answered, with a smile, Since your days, sir, are in my disposal, I desire you will change to some other subject, and some article that is rational and useful: otherwise, I must leave the room.39 To leave me, I replied, would be insupportable, and therefore, at once I have done. If you please then, Madam,[Page 61]
we will consider the miracle at Babel, and enquire into the language of the world at that time. Allowing, as you have proved in our late conversation, that the language after the flood was quite another thing from that used in Paradise, and of consequence, that Moses did not write in that tongue which Adam and Eve conversed in; nor is Hebrew of that primevity which some great men affirm; yet, if there was a confusion of tongues at Babel, and many languages were spoken in the earth in the days of Abraham, then, how did he and his sons converse so easily with the various nations they passed through, and had occasional connexions with? For my part, I think with Mr. Hutchinson, that the divine interposition at Babel was for quite another end, to wit, to confound their confession, and cast out of their minds the name or object of it, that a man might not listen to the lip or confession of his neighbour. They were made to lose their own lip, and to differ about the words of their atheistical confession.As to a confusion of confessions (Miss Noel replyed), it appears to me to be a notion without any foundation to rest on. The argument of Hutchinson that the word Shephah, the name for a lip, when used for the voice or speech, is never once in the Bible used in any other sense than for confession, is[Page 62]
not good; because tho' Shephah is often generally used for religious discourse or confession; yet the phrases, other lips and other tongues, are also used for other languages, utterances, pronunciations, dialects. St. Paul, I. Cor. 14. 21. 22. applys Shephah to language or dialect in his quotation from the prophet Isaiah, ch. 28. ver. 11. 12. -He says, in the law it is written, With* 40 MEN OF other tongues and other lips will I speak unto this people, and yet for all that, they will not hear me: -And the words of the prophet are, speaking of Christ promised; with stammering lips, and another tongue will be speak to this people. It is evident from this, that the Hebrew word Shephah here signifies tongues or languages, and not confessions or discourse: So the apostle applies it, and explains the prophet: and by stammering lips Isaiah means the uncouth pronunciations of barbarous dialects, or languages of the nations, which must produce in strangers to them ridiculous lips or mouths; and in this he refers undoubtedly to the stammering and strange sounds, at the Babelconfusion; when God, by a miracle and visible exhibition, distorted their organs of speech, and gave them a trembling, hesitation, and precipitancy, as to vocal and other powers: In short, the miraculous gift of tongues would in some measure affect the saints, in respect of pronunciation,[Page 63]
as the miracle of Babel did the people of that place. (6) 41 Nor is this the only place[Page 64]
in scripture where Shephah, lip, signifies language, pronunciations, and dialects; and where there is reference to the confusion of tongues at Babel: Isaiah speaking of the privileges of the godly, says,-Thou shalt not see a fierce people, of a deeper speech than thou canst perceive, (of a deeper lip than thou canst hear, Heb.) of a stammering or ridiculous tongue, that thou canst not understand. This is enough in answer to Mr. Hutchinson and his fautors, in respect of what they say on the confusion at Babel. This proves that the word Shephah, lip, signifies language, utterance, dialect, as well as confession or discourse: and therefore, Moses, in his account of the miracle at Babel, might have meant a confusion of languages. That he did mean this, is plane not only from a tradition gone out into all the earth, which is a matter of greater regard than Mr. Hutchinson's fancy;[Page 65]
but because the sacred oracles allude to this event. Beside St. Paul aforementioned; the royal prophet in Psalm 55. ver. 9. refers to the means of the division of tongues, and denounces a curse in terms taken from that inflicted at Babel. Swallow up, O Lord, and divide their tongues. This seems to describe the manner of that confusion;-that the substance of the one language was sunk or swallowed up in a vast chaos of universal babble: and that out of that jargon, it was again (by another act) divided or broken into many particular dissonant dialects, or tongues.All this (I said) is very just, and gives me delight and satisfaction. I am now convinced, not only, that Hebrew was not the language of Paradise, or that Adam did not speak the tongue the old world used immediately before the confusion at Babel; but likewise, that the division there was a division and confusion of the one language then spoken; and not a confusion of confessions, as Mr. Hutchinson affirms. Inform me however, if you please, what you mean by that tradition you mentioned, which declared the miracle of Babel was a confusion of languages.The Jews tradition (replied Miss Noel) is preserved in their Targum, and tells us, that the whole earth after the flood was of one speech, or sort of words, and when at their first remove from Ararat, they came to Shinar, they consulted to build them a city,[Page 66]
and a tower for an house of adoration, whose head might reach to, or be towards the Heavens, and to place an image of the host of Heaven, for an object of worship, on the top of it; and to put a sword in his hand, that he might make war for them against the divine armies, to prevent their dispersion over the whole earth. Whereupon the word of the Lord was reveled from Heaven, to execute vengeance upon them, and the Lord corrupted their tongue, broke their speech into seventy languages, and scattered them over the face of the whole earth. No one knew what his fellow said: and they slew one another, and ceased from building the city. Therefore he called the name of it Babel; because there the Lord mingled together the tongues of all the inhabitants of the other. This you read in the Targum that was written before the days of Jesus Christ, as the Jews affirm: or, if not so early, yet it is a very antient book, and the doctor who composed it must certainly know the meaning of the word Shephah better than Mr. Hutchinson. It appears upon the whole, that the argument of this famous modern is without foundation.It is indeed (I answered): But then I am not able to conceive how Abraham and his sons conversed with so many nations ---or how the Hebrew that Moses writ in was preserved. Illuminate me in these things,[Page 67]
illustrious Harriot, and from your fine understanding, let me have the honour and happiness of receiving true Hebrew lessons. Proceed I beseech you, and stop not till you have expounded to my understanding the true nature of Cherubim? What do you think of Mr. Hutchinson's Rub and Rubbim, and of his notions of Ezekiel's cherubic form.To talk of Cherubim and Elohim (resumed Miss Noel), and say all that ought to be said, (to speak to any purpose) of the three heads and four visages, the bull, the man, the lyon, and the eagle, mentioned in the prophet, requires more knowledge in Hebrew learning than I pretend to be mistress of, and must take up more time than there is now to spare. I may hereafter however, if you should chance to come again to our house, let you know my fancys upon these grand subjects, and why I cannot accord with Mr. Hutchinson and my father, in their notion of the Cherubim's signifying the unity of the essence, the distinction of the Persons, and man's being taken into the essence by his personal union with the second person, whose constant emblem was the lyon. This I confess appears to my plain understanding very miserable stuff. I can see no text either in the Old Testament, or in the New, for a plurality of Beings, co-ordinate and independent. The sacred pages declare there is One original perfect mind. The Lord shall[Page 68]
be King over all the earth. In that day there shall be ONE Lord, and his name One; says the prophet Zechariah, speaking of the prodigious revolution in the Gentile world, whence in process of time, by the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the worship of One true God shall prevail all over the earth, as universally as Polytheism had done before. -This I dare not observe to my father, as he is an admirer of Mr. Hutchinson, and will not bear any contradiction: but my private judgment is, that Mr. Hutchinson on the Cherubim and Elohim or Eloim, is a mad commentator, as I may show you, if we ever happen to meet again.At present, all I can do more on the Hebrew subject, is to observe that, in respect of the preservation of the Hebrew tongue, I imagine the one prevailing language before the miracle at Babel, (which one language was afterwards called Hebrew) tho' divided and swallowed as it were at the Tower, was kept without change in the line of Shem, and continued their tongue. This cannot be disputed, I believe. I likewise imagine, it must be allowed, that this Hebrew continued the vernacular tongue of the old Canaanites. It is otherwise unaccountable how the Hebrew was found to be the language of the Canaanites, when the family of Abraham came among them again, after an absence of more than 200 years. If they had[Page 69]
had another tongue at the confusion, was it possible for Abraham, during his temporary sojournments among them, and in the necessities of his peregrination, to persuade so many tribes to quit their dialect, and learn his language;-or, if his influence had been so amazing, can it be supposed, they would not return again to their old language, after he had left them, and his family was away from them more than 200 years? No, Sir. We cannot justly suppose such a thing. The language of the old Canaanites could not be a different one from the Hebrew. If you will look into Bochart (7) 42 , you will find this was his opinion. That great man says the Ante-Babel language escaped the confusion two ways, viz. by the Canaanites, through God's providence preserving it in their colonies for the future use of the Hebrews, who[Page 70]
were to possess the land; and by the patriarch Heber, as a sacred depositum for the use of his posterity and of Abraham in particular.This being the case: the Phenician or Canaanitish tongue, being the same language that the line of Heber spoke, with this only difference, that by the latter it was retained in greater purity, being in the mouths of a few, and transmitted by instruction; it follows, that Abraham and his sons could talk with all these tribes and communities; and as to the other nations he had communication with, he might easily converse with them, as he was a Syrian by birth, and to be sure could talk the Aramitish dialect as well as Laban his brother. The Aramitish was the customary language of the line of Shem. It was their vulgar tongue. The language of the old world, that was spoken immediately before the confusion, and was called Hebrew from Heber, they reserved for sacred uses.Here Miss Noel ended, and my amazement was so great, and my passion had risen so high for such uncommon female intelligence, that I could not help snatching this beauty to my arms, and without thinking of what I did, impressed on her balmy mouth half a dozen kisses. This was wrong, and gave very great offence: but she was too[Page 71]
good to be implacable, and on my begging her pardon, and protesting it was not a wilful rudeness, but the magic of her glorious eyes, and the bright powers of her mind, that had transported me beside my self, she was reconciled, and asked me, if I would play a game of cards? With delight I replyed, and immediately a pack was brought in. We sat down to cribbage, and had played a few games, when by accident Miss Noel saw the head of my german flute, which I always brought out with me in my walks, and carried in a long pocket within side my coat. You play, Sir, I suppose, on that instrument, this lady said, and as of all sorts of musick this pleases me most, I request you will oblige me with any thing you please. In a moment I answered, and taking from my pocket book the following lines, I reached them to her, and told her I had the day before set them to one of Lulli's airs, and instantly began to breathe the softest harmony I could make-
A SONG.

I.

Almighty love's resistless rage,No force can quell, no art asswage:While wit and beauty both conspire,To kindle in my breast the fire:[Page 72]

The matchless shape, the charming grace,The easy air, and blooming face,Each charm that does in Flavia shine,To keep my captive heart combine.II.

   I feel, I feel the raging fire!And my soul burns with fierce desire!Thy freedom, Reason, I disown,And beauty's pleasing chains put on;No art can set the captive free,Who scorns his offer'd liberty;Nor is confinement any pain,To him who hugs his pleasing chain.III.

   Bright Venus! Offspring of the sea!Thy sovereign dictates I obey;I own submiss thy mighty reign,And feel thy power in every vein:I feel thy influence all-confest,I feel thee triumph in my breast!'Tis there is fix'd thy sacred court,'Tis there thy Cupids gaily sport.IV.

   Come, my Boy, the altar place,Add the blooming garland's grace;Gently pour the sacred wine,Hear me, Venus! Power divine![Page 73]

Grant the only boon I crave,Hear me, Venus! Hear thy slave!Bless my fond soul with beauty's charms,And give me Flavia to my arms (8) 43 .Just as I was finishing this piece of musick, old Mr. Noel came into the parlour,[Page 74]
in his wonted good humour, and seemed very greatly pleased with me and my instrument. He told me, I was the young man he wanted to be acquainted with, and that if it was no detriment to me, I should not leave him this month to come. Come, Sir, (continued this fine old gentleman) let me hear another piece of your musick- vocal or instrumental-as you will, for I suppose you sing as well as you play. Both you shall have, Sir, (I replied), to the best of my abilities, and by way of change, I will give you first a song, called the Solitude.
[Page 75]

A SONG called the Solitude.

I.

Ye lofty mountains, whose eternal snows   Like Atlas seem to prop the distant skies;While shelter'd by your high and ample brows   All nature's beauties feast my ravish'd eyes:And far beneath me o'er the distant plainThe thunders break, and ratling tempests reign.II.

Here, when Aurora with her chearful beam   And rosy blushes marks approaching day;Oft do I walk along the purling stream,   And see the bleating flocks around me stray:The woods, the rocks, each charm that strikes my sight,Fills my whole breast with innocent delight.III.

Here gaily dancing on the flow'ry ground   The chearful shepherds join their flute and voice;While thro' the groves the woodland songs resound,   And fill th' untroubled mind with peaceful joys.[Page 76]

Musick and love inspire the vocal plain,Alone the turtle tunes her plaintive strain.IV.

Here the green turf invites my wearied head   On nature's lap, to undisturb'd repose;Here gently laid to rest-each care is fled;   Peace and content my happy eye-lids close.Ye golden flattering dreams of state adieu!As bright my slumbers are, more soft than you.V.

Here free from all the tempests of the Great,   Craft and ambition can deceive no more!Beneath these shades I find a blest retreat,   From Envy's rage secure, and Fortune's pow'r:Here call the actions of past ages o'er,Or truth's immortal source alone explore.VI.

Here far from all the busy world's alarms,   I prove in peace the Muse's sacred leisure:No cares within, no distant sound of arms,   Break my repose, or interrupt my pleasure.Fortune and Fame! Deceitful forms! Adieu!The world's a trifle far beneath my view.This song delighted the old gentleman to a great degree. He told me, he was charmed[Page 77]
with it, not only for the fine musick I made of it, but the morality of it, and liked me so much, that I was most heartily welcome to make his solitary retreat my home, as often and as long as I pleased. And indeed I did so, and continued to behave in such a manner, that in two months time, I gained so intirely his affections, and so totally the heart of his admirable daughter, that I might have her in wedlock when I pleased, after the expiration of that current year, which was the young lady's request, and be secured of his estate at his death; beside a large fortune to be immediately paid down; and this, tho' my father should refuse to settle any thing on me, or Miss Noel, my wife. This was generous and charming as my heart could desire. I thought my self the happiest of men. Every week I went to Eden-Park, one time or other, to see my dear Miss Noel, and pay my respects to her worthy father. We were while I stayed a most happy family, and enjoyed such satisfactions as few I believe have experienced in this tempestuous hemisphere. Mr. Noel was passionately fond of his daughter, and he could not regard me more if I had been his own son. I loved my Harriot with a fondness beyond description, and that glorious girl had all the esteem I could wish she had for me. Our mutual felicity could[Page 78]
rise no higher till we gave our hands, as we had already plighted our hearts.This world is a series of visionary scenes, and contains so little solid, lasting felicity, as I have found it, that I cannot call life more than a deception; and, as Swift says it, he is the happiest man, who is best deceived. When I thought myself within a fortnight of being married to Miss Noel, and thereby made as compleatly happy in every respect as it was possible for a mortal man to be, the small pox steps in, and in seven days time, reduced the finest human frame in the universe to the most hideous and offensive block. The most amiable of human creatures mortifyed all over, and became a spectacle the most hideous and unbearable. ---This broke her father's heart in a month's time, and the paradice I had in view, sunk into everlasting night.44 My heart, upon this sad accident, bled and mourned to an extreme degree. All the tender passions were up in my soul, and with great difficulty could I keep my ruffled spirits in tolerable decorum. I lost what I valued more than my life-more than repeated millions of worlds, if it had been possible to get them in exchange. This engaged, beloved partner, was an honour to her sex, and an ornament to human kind. She was one of the wisest and most agreeable of women;[Page 79]
and her life quite glorious for piety to God, compassion to the necessitous and miserable, benevolence and good will to all, with every other grace and virtue. These shined with a bright lustre in her whole deportment, and rendered her beloved, and the delight of all that knew her. Sense and genius were in her united, and by study, reflexion, and application, she improved the talents, in the happiest manner. She had acquired a superiority in thinking, speaking, writing, and acting, and in manners, her behaviour, her language, her design, her understanding, was inexpressibly charming. Miss Noel died in the 24th year of her age, the 29th of December, in the year 1724.45 This dismal occurrence sat powerfully on my spirits for some time, and for near two months, I scarcely spoke a word to any one. I was silent, but not sullen. As my tears and lamentations could not save her, so I knew they could not fetch her back again. Death and the grave have neither eyes nor ears. The thing to be done upon so melancholly an occasion, is to adore the Lord of infinite wisdom, as he has a right to strike our comforts dead, and so improve the awful event, by labouring to render our whole temper and deportment christian and divine, that we may able to live, while we do live, superior to the strokes of fortune, and the[Page 80]
calamities of human life; and when God bids us die, (in whatever manner, and at whatever time it may be) have nothing to do but to die, and so go enter into our master's joy. This is wisdom. This good we may extract from such doleful things. This was the effect my dear Miss Noel's death had on me, and when I saw myself deprived of so invaluable a thing in this world, I determined to double my diligence in so acting my part in it, that whenever I was to pass through the last extremity of nature, I might be dismissed with a blessing to another world, and by virtue of the sublime excellencies of our holy religion, proceed to the abodes of immortality and immutable felicity.I wish I could persuade you, reader, to resolve in the same manner. If you are young, and have not yet experienced life, believe me, all is vanity, disappointment, weariness, and dissatisfaction, and in the midst of troubles and uncertainties, we are hastening on to an unknown world, from whence we shall never return again. Whether our dissolution be near, we know not; but this is certain, that death, that universal conqueror, is making after us apace, to seize us as his captives; and therefore, tho' a man live many years, and rejoice in them all, (which is the case of very few), yet let him remember the days of darkness.
[Page 81]
And when death does come, our lot may be the most racking pains and distempers, to fasten us down to our sick-beds, till we resign our spirits to some strange region, our breath to the common air, and our bodies to the dust from whence they were taken. Dismal situation! If in the days of our health, we did not make our happiness and moral worth correspond-did not labour, in the time of our strength, to escape from wrong opinion and bad habit, and to render our minds sincere and incorrupt; if we did not worship and love the supreme mind, and adore his divine administration, and all the secrets of his providence. If this was not our case, before corruption begins to lay hold of us, deplorable must we be, when torments come upon us, and we have only hopeless wishes that we had been wiser, as we descend in agonies to our solitary retreat; to proceed from thence to judgment. Language cannot paint the horrors of such a condition. The anguish of mind, and the torture of body, are a scene of misery beyond Description.Or if without torment, we lie down in silence, and sink into the land of forgetfulness, yet, since the Lord Jesus is to raise us from the regions of darkness, and bring us to the sessions of righteousness, where all our actions are to be strictly tried and examined, and every one shall be judged according to[Page 82]
the deeds done in the body, whether they have been good or evil; what can screen us from the wrath of that mighty power, which is to break off the strong fetters of death, and to throw open the iron gates of the grave, if injustice, cruelty, and oppression, have been our practice in this world; or if, in the neglect of the distressed and hungry, we have given up ourselves to chambering and wantonness, to gluttony and voluptuousness? It is virtue and obedience, acts of goodness and mercy, that only can deliver us. If we worship in spirit and in truth the most glorious of immortal Beings, that God who is omnipotent in wisdom and action, and perform all the offices of love and friendship to every man, then our Lord will pronounce us the blessed of his Father. If we do evil, we shall come forth unto the resurrection of damnation. - This merits your attention, reader, and I hope you will immediately begin to ponder, what it is to have a place assigned in inconceivable happiness or misery for ever.14.46 Having thus lost Miss Noel, and my good old friend, her worthy father, I left the university, and went down to the country, after five years and three months absence, to see how things were posited at home, and pay my respects to my father; but I found them very little to my liking, and in a short time, returned to Dublin again. He[Page 83]
had lately married in his old age a young wife, who was one of the most artful, false, and insolent of women, and to gratify her to the utmost of his power, had not only brought her nephew into his house, but was ridiculously fond of him, and lavishly gratifyed all his desires. Whatever this little brute (the son of a drunken beggar, who had been a journey-man glover) was pleased, in wantonness, to call for, and that his years, then sixteen, could require, my father's fortune in an instant produced; while scarcely one of my rational demands could be answered. Money, cloaths, servants, horses, dogs, and all things he could fansy, were given him in abundance; and to please the basest of women, and the most cruel step-mother that ever the Devil inspired to make the son of another woman miserable, I was denied almost every thing. The fine allowance I had at the University was taken from me. Even a horse to ride out to the neighbouring gentlemen, was refused me, tho' my father had three stables of extraordinary cattle; and till I purchased one, was forced to walk it, where-ever I had a mind to visit. What is still more incredible (if any thing of severity can be so, when a mother-in-law is sovereign) I was not allowed to keep my horse even at grass on the land, tho' five hundred acres of freehold[Page 84]
estate surrounded the mansion, but obliged to graze it at a neighbouring farmer's. Nor was this all the hard measure I received. I was ordered by my father to become the young man's preceptor; to spend my precious time in teaching this youngster, and in labouring to make the little despicable dunce a scholar. All this was more than I could bear. My life became insupportable, and I resolved to range even the wilds of Africa, if nothing better offered, rather than live a miserable slave under the cruel tyranny of those unrelenting oppressors.My father however, by the way, was as fine a gentleman as ever lived, a man of extraordinary understanding, and a scholar; likewise remarkably just and good to all the world, except my self, after I left the University: and to do him all the justice in my power, and vindicate him so far as I am able, I must not conceal, that great as the ascendant was, which my mother-in-law had over him, and as much as he was hen-pecked by that low woman, who had been his servant maid, yet it was not to her only that my sufferings were owing. Religion had a hand in my misery. False religion was the spring of that paternal resentment I suffered under.15.47 It was my father's wont to have prayers read every night and morning in his[Page 85]
family, and the office was the litany of the common-prayer book. This work, on my coming home, was transferred from my sister to me, and for about one week I performed to the old gentleman's satisfaction, as my voice was good, and my reading distinct and clear: but this office was far from being grateful to me, as I was become a strict Unitarian, by the lessons I had received from my private tutor in college, and my own examinations of the vulgar faith. It went against my conscience to use the tritheistic form of prayer, and became at last so uneasy to me, that I altered the prayers the first Sunday morning, and made them more agreeable to scripture as I conceived. My father at this was very highly enraged, and his passion arose to so great a height, upon my defending my confession, and refusing to read the established form, that he called me the most impious and execrable of wretches, and with violence drove me from his presence. Soon after however he sent me Lord Nottingham's Letter to Mr. Whiston, and desired I would come to him when I had carefully read it over. I did so, and he asked me what I thought of the book. I answered, that I thought it a weak piece, and if he would hear me with patience, in relation to that in particular, and to the case in general, perhaps he might think my religion[Page 86]
a little better than at present he supposed it to be. I will hear you, he said: proceed. -Then I immediately began, and for a full hour repeated an apology I had prepared (9) 48 . He did not interrupt me once, and when I had done, all he replyed was, I see you are to be placed among the incurables. Be gone, he said, with stern disdain; and I resolved to obey. Indeed it was impossible for me to stay, for my father took no farther notice of me, and my mother-in-law and the boy, did all they could invent to render my life miserable.15.49 On the first day of May then, early in the morning, as the clock struck one, I mounted my excellent mare, and with my boy, O'Fin, began to journey as[Page 87]
I had projected, on seeing how things went. I did not communicate my design to a soul, nor take my leave of any one, but in the true spirit of adventure, abandoned my father's dwelling, and set out to try what fortune would produce in my favor. I had the world before me, and Providence my guide. As to my substance, it consisted of a purse of gold, that contained fifty Spanish pistoles, and half a score moidores; and I had one bank note for five hundred pounds, which my dear Miss Noel left me by her will, the morning she sickened; and it was all she had of her own to leave to any one. With this I set forward, and in five days time arrived from the Western extremity of Ireland at a village called Rings-end, that lies on the Bay of Dublin. Three days I rested there, and at the Conniving-House (10) 50 , and then got my horses on board a ship that was ready to fail, and[Page 88]
bound for the land I was born in, I mean Old England.16.51 The wind, in the afternoon, seemed good and fair, and we were in hopes of getting to Chester the next day: but at midnight, a tempest arose, which held in all the horrors of hurricane, thunder and lightning, for two nights and a day, and left us no hope of escape. It was a dreadful scene indeed, and looked as if the last fatal assault was making on the globe. As we had many passengers, their cries were terrible, and affected me more than the flashing fires and the winds. For my part, I was well reconciled to the great change, but I confess that nature shrunk at the frightful manner of my going off, which I expected every moment the second night. At last however, we got into Whitehaven. It pleased the great King of all the earth to bid the storm, Have done.52 Four remarkable things I noticed while the tempest lasted. One was, that the Dean[Page 89]
of Derry, Dr. Whaley, whom we had on board, (who had nineteen hundred a year from the church, for teaching the people to be Christians) was vastly more afraid than one young lady of the company, who appeared quite serene. The Dean, tho' a fine Orator at land, was ridiculous in his fears at sea. He screamed as loud as any of the people: But this young lady behaved, like an angel in a storm. She was calm and resigned, and sat with the mate and me, the second night, discoursing of the divine power, and the laws of nature, in such uproars. By the way, neither mate, nor master, nor hand, could keep the deck. The ship was left to the mercy of the winds and waves.53 The second remarkable thing is, that as this young lady went into naked bed in her cabbin, the first night, before the tempest began to stir, it was not many hours till a sea struck us upon the quarter, and drove in one of our quarter, and one of our stern dead lights, where we shipped great quantities of water, that put us under great apprehensions of foundering, and filled so suddenly the close wooden bed in which Miss Melmoth lay, that had not I chanced to be then leaning against the partition, and snatched her out, the moment I found my self all over wet, and half covered with the breaking sea, she must inevitably have perished. I ran up on deck[Page 90]
with her in my arms, and laid her almost senseless and naked there: and as there was no staying many minutes in that place, I threw my great coat over her, and then brought her down to my own birth, which I gave her, and got her dry cloaths from her trunk, and made her drink a large glass of brandy, which saved her life. She got no cold, which I thought very strange, but was hurt a little in the remove. When all was over, she protested she would never go into naked bed, on board ship, again.54 The third particular is, that there were some officers on board, most monstrously wicked men, and when we were given over by the captain, and no hope he thought of being saved, these warriors lamented like young children, and were the most dismal, disturbing howlers on board: yet, when we got on land, they had done with O Lord, O Lord, and began again their obscene talk, and to damn themselves at every word to the center of hell.55 The fourth thing was this. There was on board with us a young gentleman of my acquaintance, one Pierce Gavan, who had been a fellow-commoner in my time of Trinity, Dublin. The first day of the storm, he was carried over-board by a rolling sea, and fairly lodged in the ocean, at above twenty yards distance from the ship; but the next tumbling[Page 91]
billow brought him back again. He was laid on the deck without any hurt. On the contrary, one Charles Henley, a young merchant, was beat over, and we never saw him more.56 Henley was not only a man of sense and prudence, who had an honest mind, and a cultivated understanding, but by search and enquiries into the doctrines, institutions and motives of reveled religion, had the highest regard for the truths of genuine Christianity, and chose the best means in his power to make himself acceptable to God.57 Gavan, on the contrary, had no sense of religion, nor did he ever think of the power and goodness of God. He was a most prophane swearer, drank excessively, and had the heart to debauch every pretty woman he saw, if it had been possible for him to do so much mischief. -Yet this man, who never reformed that I heard, and whose impieties have shocked even young fellows who were no saints, was astonishingly preserved; and Henley, who had the justest natural notions, and listened to Revelation, perished miserably? How shall we account for such things? By saying, that the world that now is, and the world that is to come, are in the hands of God, and every transaction in them is quite right, tho' the reason of the procedure may be beyond our view. We cannot judge certainly of the ends and purposes of Providence,[Page 92]
and therefore to pass judgment on the ways of God, is not only impious, but ridiculous to the last degree. This we know for certain, that whenever, or however, a good man falls, he falls into the hand of God, and since we must all die, the difference as to time and manner, signifies very little, when there is an infinite wisdom to distinguish every case, and an infinite goodness to compensate all our miseries. This is enough for a Christian. Happy is the man, and for ever safe, let what will happen, who acts a rational part, and has the fear and love of God in his thoughts. With pleasure he looks into all the scenes of futurity. When storms and earthquakes threaten calamity, distress, and death, he maintains an inward peace.17.58 When we had obtained the wished for shore, the passengers all divided. The Dean and his lady, and some other ladies, went one way, to an inn recommended to them by a gentleman on board; the warriors and Gavan marched to another house; and the young lady, whose life was by me preserved, and I, went to the Talbot, which the mate informed me had the best things and lodging, tho' the smallest inn of the town. This mate, Mr. Whitwell, deserves to be particularly mentioned, as he was remarkable for good breeding, good sense, and a[Page 93]
considerable share of learning, tho' a sailor; as remarkable this way, as the captain of the ship was the other way, that is, for being the roughest and most brutal old tar that ever commanded a vessel.18.59 Whitwell the mate, about thirty-six years of age at this time, told me, he was the son of a man who once had a great fortune, and gave him a university education, but left an estate so encumbered with debts, and ruined with mortgages, that its income was almost nothing, and therefore the son sold the remains of it, and went to sea with an East-India captain, in the 22d year of his age, and was so fortunate abroad, that he not only acquired riches, in four years time that he trafficked about, between Batavia and the Gulph of Persia, but married a young Indian Lady, (the daughter of a Rajah, or petty Prince in the Mogul Empire) who was rich, wise, and beautiful, and made his life so very happy, for three years that she lived, that his state was a mere Paradise, and he seemed a little sovereign. But this fleeting scene was soon over, and on his return to England with all his wealth, their ship was taken by the pirates of Madagascar, who robbed him of all he had, and made him a miserable slave for two years and upwards. That he escaped from them to the tawny generation of Arabs, who lived on[Page 94]
the mountains, the other side of this African island, and used him with great humanity; their chief being very fond of him, and entertaining him in his mud-wall palace: he married there a pretty little yellow creature, niece to the poor ruler, and for twelve months was very far from being miserable with this partner, as they had a handsome cottage and some cattle, and this wife was good-humour itself, very sensible, and a religious woman; her religion being half Mahometanism and half Judaism. But she died at the years end, and her uncle, the Chief, not living a month after her, Whitwell came down from the mountains to the next sea coast under the conduct of one of the Arabians, his friend, and meeting with a European ship there, got at last to London. A little money he had left behind him in England, by way of reserve, in case of accidents, if he ever should return to his own country, and with this he drest himself, got into business, and came at last to be mate of the Skinner and Jenkins. His destiny, he added, was untoward, but as he had thought, and read, and seen enough in his wide travels, to be convinced, the world, and every being, and every atom of it, were directed and governed by unerring wisdom, he derived hopes and comforts from a due acknowledgment of God. There are more[Page 95]
born to misery than to happiness, in this life: but all may die to be for ever glorious and blessed, if they please. -This conclusion was just and beautiful, and a life and sentiments so uncommon I thought deserved a memorial.19.60 Miss Melmoth and I continued at the Talbot for three weeks, and during that time, breakfasted, dined, and supped together. Except the hours of sleep, we were rarely from each other. We walked out together every day, for hours conversed, sometimes went to cards, and often she sung, delightfully sung, while on my flute I played. With the greatest civility, and the most exact good manners, we were as intimate as if we had been acquainted for ages, and we found a satisfaction in each others company, as great as lovers generally experience: yet so much as one syllable of the passion was not mentioned: not the least hint of love on either side was given, while we stayed at Whitehaven; and I believe, neither of us had a thought of it. It was a friendship the most pure and exalted, that commenced at my saving her life, in the manner I have related, and by some strange kind of magic, our notions and inclinations, tempers and sentiments, had acquired such a sameness in a few days, that we seemed as two spiritual Socias, or duplicates of each others mind.[Page 96]
Body was quite out of the case, tho' this lady had an extravagance of beauty. My sole delight was that fine percepient, which shed a lustre on her outward charms. How long this state would have lasted, had we continued more time together, and had the image of the late Miss Noel been more effaced, or worn out of the sensory of my head, I cannot say; but while it did last, there could be nothing more strange. To see two young people of different sexes, in the highest spirits and most confirmed health, live together for twenty-one days, perfectly pleased with each other, intirely at their own disposal, and as to fortune, having abundantly enough between them both for a comfortable life; and yet, never utter one word, nor give a look, that could be construed a declaration of the passion, or a tendency towards a more intimate union;-to compleat that connexion which nature and providence requires of beings circumstanced as we were;-this was very odd. Till the clock struck twelve every night we sat up, and talked of a vast variety of things, from the Bible down to the clouds of Aristophanes, and from the comedies and tragedies of Greece and Rome to the Minerva of Sanctius, and Hickes's northern Thesaurus. Instead of Venus or any of her court, our conversation would often be on the morals of Cicero, his academicks,[Page 97]
and de finibus; on the English or the Roman history; Shakespear's scenes of nature, or maps of life; whether the OEdipus or the Electra of Sophocles was the best tragedy; and the scenes in which Plautus and Terence most excelled. Like two criticks, or two grammarians, antiquarians, historians, or philosophers, would we pass the evening with the greatest chearfulness and delight.61 Miss Melmoth had a memory astonishing, and talked on every subject extremely well. She remembred all she had read. Her judgment was strong, and her reflections ever good. She told me her mother was another Mrs. Dacier, and as her father was killed in a duel, when she was very young, the widow Melmoth, instead of going into the world, continued to live at her country seat, and diverted herself with teaching her daughter the languages of Greece and Rome, and in educating her heart and mind. This made this young lady a master of the Latin tongue and Greek, and enabled her to acquire a knowledge so various and fine, that it was surprizing to hear her expatiate and explain. She talked with so much ease and good humour, and had a manner so chearful and polite, that her discourse was always entertaining, even tho' the subject happened to be, as it was one evening, the paulo[Page 98]
paulo post futurum of a Greek verb. These things however were not the only admirable ones in this character. So happily had her good mother formed and instructed her mind, that it appeared full of all the principles of rational honour, and devoted to that truly God-like religion, which exalts the soul to an affection rather than dread of the supreme Lord of all things, and to a conviction that his laws lead us both to happiness here and hereafter. She thorowly understood the use and excellence of Revelation, and had extracted from the inspired volumes everlasting comfort and security under the apprehensions of the divine Power and Majesty: but she told me, she could not think rites and outward performances were essential to real religion. She considered what was just and beautiful in these things as useful and assisting only to the devout mind. -In a word, this young lady was wise and good, humble and charitable. I have seen but one of her sex superior to her, in the powers of mind, and the beauties of body: that was Miss Noel. Very few have I known that were equal.20.62 The 2d day of June Miss Melmoth and I left Whitehaven, and proceeded from thence to Westmoreland. We travelled for five days together, till we came to Brugh under Stainmore, where we stayed a night at[Page 99]
Lamb's, (a house I recommend to the reader, if ever he goes that way), and the next morning we parted. Miss Melmoth and her servants went right onwards to Yorkshire, and I turned to the left, to look for one Mr. Charles Turner, who had been my near friend in the University, and lived in some part of the north-east extremity of Westmoreland, or Yorkshire. But before we separated on the edge of Stainmore, we stopped at the Bell to breakfast, which is a little lone house on a descent to a vast romantic glin, and all the public house there is in this wild, silent road till you come to Jack Railton, the Quaker's house at Bows. We had a pot of coffee and toast and butter for breakfast, and as usual we were very chearful over it; but when we had done, and it was time to depart, a melancholy, like a black and dismal cloud, began to overspread the charming face of Charlotte, and after some silence, the tears burst from her eyes. What is the matter, Miss Melmoth, I said-what makes this amazing change? I will tell you, Sir, this beauty replyed. To you I owe my life, and for three weeks past have lived with you in so very happy a way, that the end of such a scene, and the probability of my never seeing you more, is too much for me. Miss Melmoth, (I answered) you do me more honor than I deserve in shedding tears for[Page 100]
me, and since you can think me worth seeing again, I promise you upon my sacred word, that as soon as I have found a beloved friend of mine I am going up the hills to look for, and have paid my respects to him for a while, if he is to be found in this desolate part of the world, I will travel with my face in the next place, if it be possible, towards the east-riding of Yorkshire, and be at Mrs. Asgil's door, where you say you are to be found. This restored the glories to Charlotte's face again, and for the first time, I gave Miss Melmoth a kiss, and bid her adieu.21.63 Having thus lost my charming companion, I travelled into a vast valley, enclosed by mountains whose tops were above the clouds, and soon came into a country that is wilder than the Campagna of Rome, or the uncultivated vales of the Alps and Apennines. Warm with a classical enthusiasm, I journeyed on, and with fancy's eye beheld the rural divinities, in those sacred woods and groves, which shade the sides of many of the vast surrounding fells, and the shores and promontories of many lovely lakes and bright running streams. For several hours I travelled over mountains tremendous to behold, and through vales the finest in the world. Not a man or house could I see in eight hours time, but towards five in the afternoon, there appeared at the foot of[Page 101]
a hill a sweetly situated cottage, that was half covered with trees, and stood by the side of a large falling stream: a vale extended to the south from the door, that was terminated with rocks, and precipices on precipes, in an amazing point of view, and through the flowery ground, the water was beautifully seen, as it winded to a deeper flood at the bottom of the vale. Half a dozen cows were grazing in view: and a few flocks of feeding sheep added to the beauties of the scene.To this house I sent my boy, to enquire who lived there, and to know, if for the night I could be entertained, as I knew not where else to go. O'Fin very quickly returned, and informed me, that one farmer Price was the owner of the place, but had gone in the morning to the next town, and that his wife said, I was welcome to what her house afforded. In then I went, and was most civilly received by an exceeding pretty woman, who told me her husband would soon be at home, and be glad she was sure to see me at their lone place; for he was no stranger to gentlemen and the world, tho' at present he rarely conversed with any one. She told me, their own supper would be ready an hour hence, and in the mean time would have me take a can of fine ale and a bit of bread. She brought me a cup[Page 102]
of extraordinary mault-drink and a crust, and while I was eating my bread, in came Mr. Price.22.64 The man seemed very greatly astonished at entering the room, and after he had looked with great earnestness at me for a little while, he cryed out, Good Heaven! What do I see! Falstaff, my class-fellow, and my second self. My dear friend you are welcome, thrice welcome to this part of the world. All this surprized me not a little, for I could not recollect at once a face that had been greatly altered by the small-pox: And it was not till I reflected on the name Price that I knew I was then in the house of one of my school-fellows, with whom I had been most intimate, and had played the part of Plump Jack in Henry the fourth, when he did Prince Henry. This was an unexpected meeting indeed: and considering the place, and all the circumstances belonging to the scene, a thing more strange and affecting never came in my way. Our pleasure at this meeting was very great, and when the most affectionate salutations were over, my friend Price proceeded in the following manner.Often have I remembered you since we parted, and exclusive of the Greek and English plays we have acted together at Sheridan's school, in which you acquired no[Page 103]
small applause, I have frequently thought of our frolicksome rambles in vacation time, and the merry dancings we had at Mother Red-Cap's in Back-Lane; the hurling matches we have played at Dolphin's-Barn, and the cakes and ale we used to have at the Organ-house on Arbor-Hill. These things have often occurred to my mind: but little did I think we should ever meet again on Stainmore-hills. What strange things does time produce! It has taken me from a town life to live on the most solitary part of the globe: -And it has brought you to journey where never man I believe ever thought of travelling before. So it is, (I replyed), and stranger things, dear Jack, may happen yet before our eyes are closed: why I journey this untravelled way, I will inform you by and by; when you have told me by what strange means you came to dwell in this remote and silent vale. That you shall know, (Mr. Price said) very soon, as soon as we have eaten a morsel of something or other which my dear Martha has prepared against my return. Here it comes, a fowl, bacon and greens, and as fine I will answer as London market could yield. Let us sit down, my friend, and God bless us and our meat.Down then we sat immediatly to our dish, and most excellent every thing was.[Page 104]
The social goodness of this fond couple added greatly to the pleasure of the meal, and with mirth and friendship we eat up our capon, our bacon, and our greens. When we had done, Price brought in pipes and tobacco, and a fresh tankard of his admirable ale. Listen now (he said) to my story, and then I will hearken to yours.23.65 When I left you at Sheridan's school, my remove was from Ireland to Barbadoes, to become a rich uncle's heir, and I got by my Indian airing a hundred thousand pounds. There I left the bones of my mother's brother, after I had lived two years in that burning place, and from thence proceeded to London, to spend what an honest, laborious man had long toiled to save. But I had not been above three months in the capital of England, when it came into my head to pass some time in France, and with a girl I kept made hast to the French metropolis. There I lived at a grand rate, and took from the French Opera-house another whore. The Gaul and the Briton were both extreme fine girls, and agreed so well together, that I kept them both in one house. I thought my self superlatively happy in having such a brace of females, and spared no cost in procuring them all the finery and pleasures that Paris and London could yield. I had a furnished house in both these cities,[Page 105]
and with an expensive equipage went backwards and forwards. In four years time I spent a great deal of money, and as I had lost large sums at play, and these two whores agreed in the end to rob me, and retire with the money, where I should never discover them, I found my self in very midling circumstances, and had not six hundred pounds left in the fourth year from my uncle's death. How to dispose of this and my self was now the question. What shall I do, (was my deliberation) to secure bread and quiet? Many a thoughtful hour this gave me, and at length I determined to purchase a little annuity. But before this could be effected, I went down to Westmoreland, on an information I had received, that my two ladies were at Appleby with other names, and on my money appeared as women of fortune. But this journey was to no purpose, and I was preparing to return to London, when my wife you saw at the head of the table a while ago, came by chance in my way, and pleased me so well with her good understanding, face and person, that I resolved to marry her, if she would have me, and give her the management of my five hundred pounds on a farm, as she was a farmer's daughter, and could manage one to good advantage. Her father was[Page 106]
lately dead, and this little mountain farm she continued to occupy: therefore nothing could be more to my purpose, if I could prevail on her to make me her husband, and with some difficulty she did, to my unspeakable felicity. She had no money worth mentioning: but her house was pretty and comfortable, and her land had grain and cattle; and as I threw into her lap my five hundred pounds, a little before we were married, to be by her disposed of and managed, according to her pleasure, she soon made some good improvements and additions, and by her fine understanding, sweet temper, and every Christian virtue, continues to render my life so compleatly happy; so joyous and delightful; that I would not change my partner and condition, for one of the first quality and greatest fortune. In her I have every thing I could wish for in a wife and a woman, and she makes it the sole study and pleasure of her life to crown my every day with the highest satisfactions and comforts. Two years have I lived with her on these wild mountains, and in that time I have not had one dull or painful minute, but in thinking that I may lose her, and be the wretched survivor. That thought does sometimes wound me. -In sum, my friend, we are the happiest of wedded mortals, and on this small, remote farm, live[Page 107]
in a state of bliss to be envyed. This proves that happiness does not flow from riches only: but that, where pure and perfect love, strict virtue, and unceasing industry, are united in the conjugal state, they can make the Stainmore mountains a Paradice to mortals, in peace and little.But it is not only happiness in this world that I have acquired by this admirable woman, but life eternal. You remember, my friend, what a wild and wicked one I was when a school-boy, and as Barbadoes of all parts of the globe is no place to improve a man's morals in, I returned from thence to Europe as debauched a scelerate as ever offended Heaven by blasphemy and illegal gratifications. Even my losses and approaching poverty were not capable of making any great change in me. When I was courting my wife, she soon discerned my impiety, and perceived that I had very little notion of hell and heaven, death and judgment. This she made a principal objection against being concerned with me, and told me, she could not venture into a married connexion with a man, who had no regard to the divine laws, and therefore, if she could not make me a Christian, in the true sense of the word, she would never be Mrs. Price.
[Page 108]
This from a plain, country girl, surprized me not a little, and my astonishment arose very high, when I heard her talk of religion, and the great end of both, a blessed life after this. She soon convinced me, that religion was the only means by which we can arrive at true happiness, by which we can attain to the last perfection and dignity of our nature, and that the authority and word of God is the surest foundation of religion. The substance of what she said is as follows. I shall never forget the lesson.The plain declarations of our Master in the Gospel restore the dictates of uncorrupted reason to their force and authority, and give us just notions of God and of our selves. They instruct us in the nature of the Deity, discover to us his unity, holiness, and purity, and afford certain means of obtaining eternal life. Revelation commands us to worship One Supreme God, the Supreme Father of all things; and to do his will, by imitating his perfections, and practising every thing recommended by that Law of Reason, which he sent the Messiah to revive and enforce: that by repentance, and righteousness, and acts of devotion, we may obtain the Divine favor, and share in the glories of futurity: for, the Supreme Director, whose goodness gives counsel to his power, commanded us into existence to conduct us to everlasting happiness, and therefore, teaches us by his[Page 109]
Son to pray, to praise, and to repent, that we may be entitled to a nobler inheritance than this world knows, and obtain life and immortality, and all the joys and blessings of the heavenly Canaan. This was the godlike design of our Creator. That superior Agent, who acts not by arbitrary will, but by the maxims of unclouded reason, when he made us, and stationed us in this part of his creation, had no glory of his own in view, but what was perfectly consistent with a just regard to the felicity of his rational subjects.It was this made the Apostle shew Felix the unalterable obligations to justice and equity; to temperance, or, a command over the appetites; and then, by displaying the great and awful judgment to come, urge him to the practice of these, and all the other branches of morality; that by using the means prescribed by God, and acting up to the conditions of salvation, he might escape that dreadful punishment, which, in the reason and nature of things, is connected with vice, and which the good government of the rational world requires should be inflicted on the wicked; and might, on the contrary, by that mercy offered to the world thro' Jesus Christ, secure those immense rewards, which are promised to innocence and the testimony of an upright heart. This faith[Page 110]
in Christ St. Paul placed before the Roman governor in the best light. He described the complexion and genius of the Christian faith. He represented it as reveling the wrath of God against all immorality; and as joining with reason and uncorrupted nature, enforcing the practice of every moral and social duty.What effect this discourse had on Felix (Martha continued) in producing faith, that is, morality in an intelligent agent, we are told by the Apostle. He trembled: but iniquity and the world had taken such a hold of him, that he dismissed the subject, and turned from a present uneasiness to profit and the enjoyment of sin. He had done with St. Paul, and sacrificed the hopes of eternity to the world and its delights.But this (concluded Martha) will not I hope be your case. As a judgment to come is an awful subject, you will ponder in time, and look into your own mind. As a man, a reasonable and social creature, designed for duty to a God above you, and to a world of fellow-creatures around you, you will consider the rules of virtue and morality, and be no longer numbered with those miserable mortals, who are doomed to condemnation upon their disobedience. Those rules lie open in a perfect gospel, and the wicked can have nothing to plead for their behaviour.[Page 111]
They want no light to direct them. They want no assistance to support them in doing their duty. They have a Gospel to bring them to life and salvation, if they will but take notice of it; and if they will not walk in the light of God's law, this Gospel must be their judgment and condemnation.Say then, Sir, (Martha proceeded) can you be prevailed on to think of religion in its native purity and simplicity, and by the power of the Gospel, so act with regard to virtue and piety, that when Christ shall come not only in the power, but in the wisdom and the justice of God, to judge the world, you may be secured from that misery and distress, which is prepared for iniquity; and enjoy that eternal life, which is to be the portion of the righteous?In this extraordinary manner did Martha Harrington discourse me, and the effect of it was (Jack Price continued), that I became a thorow reform from that hour. My rational life from that happy day commenced, and I entred seriously into my own breast, to think in earnest of that solemn judgment to come. What Martha said was so clear and strong, that I had not a thought of replying, but truth at once intirely subdued my heart, and I flew to the Son of God, to request his intercession with the Father of the Universe for the pardon of all my crimes.[Page 112]
The dignity and end of my being has since been the subject of my meditations, and I live convinced, that every thing is contemptible that is inconsistent with duty and morality. This renders even my pleasures more agreeable. This gives eternal peace to my mind.24.66 Here Price, ended his remarkable story, and according to our agreement, I began to relate what happened to me from the time we parted at school, and concluded with informing him, that I was going in search of Charles Turner, my near friend, when fortune brought me to his house: that this gentleman lived somewhere towards the confines of Cumberland and the Northriding of Yorkshire, but where the spot was I could not tell, nor did I know well how to go on, as the country before me seemed unpassable, on account of its mountains, precipices, and floods: I must try however what can be done; not only in regard to this gentleman; but, because I have reason to think it may be very much to my advantage, as he is very rich, and the most generous of men. If he is to be found, I know I shall be welcome to share in his happiness as long as I please, nor will it be any weight to him. Price to this replyed, that I was most heartily welcome to him as long as I pleased to[Page 113]
stay, and that tho' he was far from being a rich man, yet he had every day enough for himself and one more; and his Martha he was sure would be as well pleased with my company, as if I had been his own brother, since she knew I was his esteemed friend. -In respect of the way, he said, he would enable me to find Mr. Turner, if he could, but the country was difficult to travel, and he doubted very much if one could go to the extremity of Cumberland or Yorkshire over the hills; but we would try however, and if it was possible, find out Mr. Turner's house. Yet solely with him I must not stay, if he could be seen. I must live between both, till I got some Northern girl, and had a wife and habitation of my own; and there is (continued Price) not many miles from me, a sweet pretty lass, the daughter of a gentleman-farmer, who is a very good man, and would, I believe, upon my recommendation, give you his girl, and a sum of money, to sit down on those hills. -This is vastly kind, Jack, I answering, said, and what I shall gratefully remember so long as I live. I may ride many a mile I am sure, and be an adventurer many a long day, before I meet with such offers again. Your sweetly situated house and good things, with a fine northern girl and money down, are benefits[Page 114]
not to be met with every day. -But at present the object I must pursue, is my university friend, Charles Turner, and if you please to do me the great favor of guiding me so far as you can over this wild, uninhabited land, after I have stayed with you, for the first time, two or three days, and promise to abide many more hereafter, if it be in my power, we will set out in quest of what I want. As you will, my friend Price replyed: and for the present, let us be gay. Here comes my beloved, with a little bowl of punch, and as she sings extremely well, and you have not forgot I fansy our old song, we will have it over our nectar. You shall represent Janus and Momus, and I will be Chronos and Mars, and my wife Diana and Venus. Let us take a glass first-the liberties of the world-and then do you begin. We drank, and in the following manner I went on.A SONG.25.
Janus.

Chronos, Chronos, mend thy pace,An hundred times the rowling sun,Around the radiant belt has run;   In his revolving race.Behold, behold the goal in sight,Spread thy fans, and wing thy flight.


[Page 115]
Chonos.

Weary, weary of my weight,Let me, let me drop my freight,And leave the world behind.   I could not bear   Another yearThe load of human kind.

Momus.

Ha! ha! ha! ha! ha! ha! well hast thou done,   To lay down thy pack,   And lighten thy back.The world was a fool, e'er since it begun,And since neither Janus, nor Chronos, nor I,   Can hinder the crimes,   Or mend the bad times,'Tis better to laugh than to cry.

Chorus.

'Tis better to laugh than to cry.

Janus.

Since Momus comes to laugh below,   Old time begin the show!That he may see, in every scene,What changes in this age have been;

Chronos.

Then goddess of the silver bow begin!

Diana.

With horns and with hounds I waken the day,And hye to my woodland-walks away;I tuck up my robe, and am buskin'd soon,And tye to my forehead a wexing moon;[Page 116]

I course the fleet stag, unkennel the fox,And chase the wild goats o'er summits of rocks,With shouting and hooting we pierce thro' the sky:And eccho turns hunter, and doubles the cry.

Chorus.

With shouting and hooting we pierce thro' the sky,And eccho turns hunter, and doubles the cry.

Janus.

Then our age was in its prime,

Chronos.

Free from rage,

Diana.

-And free from crime.

Momus.

A very merry, dancing, drinking,Laughing, quaffing, and unthinking time.

Chorus.

Then our age was in its prime,Free from rage, and free from crime.A very merry, dancing, drinking,Laughing, quaffing, and unthinking time.

Mars.

Inspire the vocal brass, inspire;The world is past its infant age:   Arms and honour,   Arms and honour,Set the martial mind on fire,And kindle manly rage.[Page 117]

Mars has lookt the sky to red;And peace, the lazy good, is fled.Plenty, peace, and pleasure fly;   The sprightly greenIn Woodland-walks, no more is seen;The sprightly green has drank the Tyrian dye.

Chorus.

Plenty, peace, and pleasure fly;   The sprightly greenIn Woodland-walks, no more is seen;The sprightly green has drank the Tyrian dye.

Mars.

Sound the trumpet, beat the drum,Through all the world around;Sound a reveille, sound, sound,   The warrior God is come.

Chorus.

Sound the trumpet, beat the drum,Through all the world around;Sound a reveille, sound, sound,   The warrior God is come.

Momus.

Thy sword within the scabbard keep,   And let mankind agree;Better the world were fast asleep,   Than kept awake by thee.The fools are only thinner,   With all our cost and care;But neither side a winner,   For things are as they were.


[Page 118]
Chorus.

The fools are only thinner,   With all our cost and care;But neither side a winner,   For things are as they were.

Venus.

Calms appear, when storms are past,Love will have its hour at last:Nature is my kindly care;Mars destroys, and I repair;Take me, take me, while you may,Venus comes not ev'ry day.

Chorus.

Take her, take her, while you may,Venus comes not ev'ry day.

Chronos.

The world was then so light,I scarcely felt the weight;Joy rul'd the day, and love the night.But since the queen of pleasure left the ground,   I faint, I lag,   And feebly dragThe pond'rous orb around.

Momus pointing to Diana.

All, all, of a piece throughout;The chace had a beast in view;

to Mars.

Thy wars brought nothing about;

to Venus.

Thy lovers were all untrue,

to Janus.

'Tis well an old age is out,And time to begin a new.


[Page 119]
Chorus.

All, all, of a piece throughout;Thy chace had a beast in view;Thy wars brought nothing about;Thy lovers were all untrue;'Tis well an old age is out,And time to begin a new.


26.67 In this happy manner did we pass the night in this wild and frightful part of the world, and for three succeeding evenings and days, enjoyed as much true satisfaction as it was possible for mortals to feel. Price was an ingenious, chearful, entertaining man, and his wife had not only sense more than ordinary, but was one of the best of women. I was prodigiously pleased with her conversation. Tho' she was no woman of letters, nor had any books in her house except the Bible, Barrow's and Wichcott's sermons, Howell's History of the World, and the History of England, yet from these few, a great memory, and an extraordinary conception of things, had collected a valuable knowledge, and she talked with an ease and perspicuity that was wonderful. On religious subjects she astonished me.68 As Sunday was one of the days I stayed there, and Price was obliged in the afternoon to be from home, I passed it in conversation with his wife. The day introduced religion,[Page 120]
and among other things, I asked her, which she thought the best evidences of christianity? The prophecies or the miracles?Neither: (Mrs. Price replyed). The prophecies of the Messiah recorded in the old testament are a good proof of the christian religion, as it is plane from many instances in the new testament, that the Jewish converts of that generation understood them to relate to our Lord; which is a sufficient reason for our believing them. Since they knew the true intent and meaning of them, and on account of their knowing it, were converted; the prophecies for this reason should by us be regarded as divine testimony in favor of Christ Jesus. -Then as to miracles, they are to be sure a means of proving and spreading the christian religion, as they shew the divine mission of the Messiah, and rouze the mind to attend to the power by which these mighty works were wrought. Thus miracle and prophecy shew the teacher came from God. They contribute to the establishment of his kingdom, and have a tendency to produce that faith which purifies the heart, and brings forth the new birth.But the greater evidence for the truth of our holy religion, appears to me to be that which converted the primitive christians, to wit, the powerful influence which the Gospel has on the minds of those who study[Page 121]
it with sincerity, and the inward discoveries Christ makes to the understanding of the faithful by his light and good spirit. This exceeds the other evidences, if the heart be honest. The Gospel is irresistible, when the spirit of God moves upon the minds of christians. When the divine power, dispensed through Christ, assists and strengthens us to do good, and to eschew evil, then christianity appears a religion worthy of God, and in itself the most reasonable. The compleat salvation deserves our ready acceptation. That religion must charm a reasonable world, which not only restores the worship of the one true God, and exhibits, in a perfect plan, those rules of moral rectitude, whereby the conduct of men should be governed, and their future happiness secured; but, by its blessed spirit, informs our judgments, influences our wills, rectifies and subdues our passions, turns the biass of our minds from the objects and pleasures of sense, and fixes them upon the supreme good. Most glorious surely is such a gospel.But does not this operation of the spirit, (I said) which you make the principal evidence for christianity, debase human nature, and make man too weak, too helpless and depending a being? If voluntary good agency depends on supernatural influence[Page 122]
and enlivening aid, does not this make us mere patients, and if we are not moral agents, that is, have not a power of chusing or refusing, of doing or avoiding, either good or evil, can there be any human virtue? Can we in such case approve or disapprove ourselves to God. To me it seems that man was created to perform things natural, rational, and spiritual, and has an ability to act within the reach of his agency, as his duty requires. I think the moral fitness of things is a rule of action to conduct our actions by, and that the great advantage of revelation consists in its heavenly moral lessons, and the certainty of that future judgment and retribution, which has a powerful influence upon a rational mind, and strongly inclines a reasonable being to save his soul, by so acting in this world, as to avoid everlasting misery, and ensure the favor of God, and eternal happiness in another world. This appears to me more consistent with the nature and the truth of things. It is more to the honour of human nature, if I mistake not, and gives more glory to God.To this Mrs. Price answered, that as she was sensible of the shortness of her own understanding, and believed the faculties of the human mind in general were weak and deficient, she could not see any thing unreasonable in supposing the[Page 123]
thing formed depended on, and was subject to the Creator that made it. It cannot be absurd surely to say, that so weak and helpless a being as a man, depends intirely on God. Where in the nature of things can we fix a standard of certainty in understanding, and stability in practice, but in the fountain of truth, and all perfection?But to our better comprehending this matter, let us take a view of primitive Christian religion. -Christianity is a divine institution, by which God declares himself reconciled to mankind for the sake of his beloved son, the Lord Jesus Christ, on condition of repentance, amendment of life, and perseverance in a state of holiness; and that we might be able to perform the things required of us, he offers the assistance of his good spirit. This last offer, in a proper sense, is salvation; for according to his mercy, he saved us, by the washing of regeneration, and the renewing of the Holy Ghost. By grace are ye saved thro' faith, and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God. We find, then, that there are two parts in the Christian religion: one, external and historical; the other, internal and experimental. The first comprehends what is no more to be repeated, tho' the effects are lasting and permanent, to wit, the life and good works of Jesus, his miracles, death, and resurrection; which declare him spotless virtue,[Page 124]
perfect obedience, and the son of God with power: -And in the second part, we have that standing experience of a divine help, which converts and supports a spiritual life: It is true, both the parts have a near relation, and in conjunction produce the good ends of religion. The second is the effect of the first. Redemption from the power of sin, sanctification, and justification, are blessings wrought in us by the good Spirit of him, who without us did many glorious things, that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and purify unto himself a peculiar people zealous of good works: And, that they who live, should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him that died for them and rose again. But, it is in the second part, that the excellence of our holy religion consists. We have no ability of ourselves to take off our minds from the things that are evil, and engage them in the work of religion and godliness. This is the gift of God. It is a continued miracle that cleanses that polluted fountain the heart, and therefore I call this experience the principal evidence of the Christian religion. It is the glory of christianity, and renders it the perfection of all religions.That christianity (I replyed) is the perfection of all religions, is granted, but that we have no ability to save our souls without a supernatural operation on them, this is what I still have some doubt of. A careful examination[Page 125]
of the subject, produces some hard objections, and therefore, madam, I will lay my difficulties before you, that your fine natural understanding may remove them, if it be possible. I will be short on the article, for many words would only darken it.In the first place, then, as to man's inability to live a religious life, and practice the precepts of the gospel, it must be the effect of the human composition, or the effect of the agency of the serpent. If the former, it is chargeable upon the author of the composition; -if the latter, upon the agent which acts upon it. Man could not be culpable, I think, for a bad life, in either case. -If my nature be weakness itself-or the serpent is superior to me-what good can be required of me? can the supreme reason call for brick, where there are no materials to make it with? will you say, yes; because he gives supernatural ability to perform. But then, can this be called man's action? It is the action of the author by his miserable creature, man: and in such case, may we not say, that tho' commands are given to man to obey revealed laws, yet the obedience is performed by God?In the next place, as man in his natural capacity, and all his natural powers, are the work of God, and as truly derived from him as any supernatural powers can be, it follows,[Page 126]
I imagine, that a voluntary agent's making a right use of the powers of his nature, is as valuable as his being compelled to act well and wisely by a supernatural power. To assert, then, such experiences or operations, to me seems to misrepresent the nature of a being excellently constituted to answer the good purposes he was created for. I am likewise, at present, of opinion, that depretiating our natural abilities, does not give so much glory to God as you imagine.To this Mrs. Price replyed, that by the operation of the spirit, she did not mean that man was purely passive, and had no part in the working out his salvation, but that God co-operates with man, and without destroying the faculty of reason, improves it by convincing and enlightning the understanding, and by moving and inclining the will towards such objects as are acceptable to himself, and from those that are contrary to his gospel. The mind in this manner enlightned and affected, begins to act, and as the spirit moves upon the soul, the quickened man, under the divine direction, does all the good the scripture commands him to do, and eschews the evil he is ordered to avoid. By God thro' Christ, he practices the excellent virtues recommended in the holy books, and for this reason, the righteousness which christians bring forth, is called in scripture, the righteousness[Page 127]
of Christ, the righteousness of God, and the righteousness of faith. Christ is the efficient. We thro' him are made able to act. Notwithstanding the weakness and incapacity of our nature, yet thro' faith in the power of God, which is given to all who believe in him, we are enabled to flee immorality and vice, and by a life of virtue and piety, to enjoy the pleasure of a sweet reflexion, and the praises of unpolluted reason.That this is the case of man, the sacred writings declare in a thousand places, and set forth the exceeding greatness of God's power in this respect. The ministry of the gospel appears to have been ordained for this end, and the perfection of the christian religion, to rest on this particular thing. The Lord died for our sins, and rose again for our justification, that we through power received from him, (the power of his resurrection) might be made righteous. And the apostle adds, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation, to every one that believeth, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek, for therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith. And that the promise of the Holy Ghost had reference not only to the great effusion of the Spirit at Pentecost, which was a solemn confirmation of the new and spiritual dispensation of the[Page 128]
gospel; but also to that instruction which Christians of every age were to receive from it continually, if they attended to it, is evident from the promise of Christ,-I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter, (the spirit of truth) that he may abide with you for ever. This spirit was to supply the place of his personal presence. It was to become a teacher and comforter to his disciples and followers to the end of time--- to enlighten and incline their minds to piety and virtue---to enable them to do all things appertaining to life and godliness, and to have a faith in God's power and all-sufficiency. This is the glorious specific difference of Christianity from all other religions. We have an inward instructor and supporter always abiding with us. And what can be a higher honor to mankind, or an act of greater love in God, than for him to interpose continually, and by his holy Spirit restore the teachable and attentive to that purity and uprightness in which he at first created man? Glorious dispensation! Here is a compleat reparation of the loss sustained by transgression. We are created anew in Christ Jesus, and are made partakers of the divine nature. Surely this is the utmost that can be expected from religion. In short, (continued Mrs. Price) it is to me a most amazing thing, to see men of sense disclaim this help, argue for[Page 129]
self-sufficiency and independency, and receive only the outward appearance of the Son of God, in a literal, historical, and formal profession of christianity! This will never do the work. The outward appearance of the Son of God only puts us in a capacity of salvation: it is the inward appearance by the power and virtue of the spirit that must save us. The end of the gospel is repentance, forgiveness of sins, and amendment of manners; and the means of obtaining that end, is christianity in the life, spirit and power of it.You talk extremely well, madam, (I said) upon this subject, and have almost made me a convert to the notion of an inward appearance of the Son of God: but I must beg leave to observe to you, that as to what you have added, by way of explication and vindication of the operation of the spirit, to wit, that man has agency, and God co-operates with it, by which means the man is enabled to apply his agency to the performance of good; this does not seem to me to make the matter quite plain. The virtue or goodness of an agent must certainly arise from a right exercise of his own power, and how then can God's co-operating with him make him a better man? Can such co-operation add any thing to my virtue, if my goodness is to be rated in proportion to the exertion of my own will and agency. If I am not able to save a[Page 130]
man from drowning, tho' I pity him, and do my best to preserve his life; but God gives me strength, or co-operates with me, and so the man is saved; can this add any thing to my virtue or goodness? It would be indeed an instance of God's goodness to the man; but as to myself, I did no more with the divine co-operation than I did without it. I made all the use I could of what power I had. This seems to me a strong objection against the inward appearance: nor is it all there is to object. If I see a man in a deep wet ditch, in a dangerous and miserable way, and am prompted by a natural affection, and the fitness of relieving, to exert a sufficient strength I have, to take the man out of his distress, and put him in a comfortable way; (which is a thing I really did once, and thereby saved a useful life);-in this case, there was good done by an agent, without any supernatural co-operation at all: Many more instances might be produced: but from what has been said, is it not plain, that much good may be done without any interposition;-and, with it, that no good can be added to the character of the agent?But you will say, perhaps, that the good disposition of the agent in such cases, is supernatural operation, and without such operation, he could not make a right use of his ability. To this we reply, that if by disposition is[Page 131]
meant a given power to distinguish betwixt motive and motive, and so to judge of moral fitness and unfitness; or, a power to act from right motives, when such are present to the mind;-these cannot be given, because they are the powers which constitute a man a moral agent, and render him accountable for his actions. Without them he could not be a subject of moral government.And if you mean by the term disposition, God's presenting such motives to the mind, as are necessary to excite to right action; the answer is, that tho' God may kindly interpose, and in many instances, by supernatural operation, present such motives to the mind, yet such operation cannot be always necessary, in order to our doing good. -In many cases we see at once what good ought to be done, and we do it instantly of ourselves, unless the natural faculties be perverted by false principles. If our fellow-creature falls into the fire, or has a fit, while we are near him, the fitness of relieving him, and the natural compassion essential to our constitution, will make us fly to his assistance, without a supernatural operation. We want no divine impulse to make us interpose. Without being reminded, we will do our best to recover the man, if superstition or passion hath not misled the natural powers of the mind. In a great variety of things, the case is the[Page 132]
same, and when at a glance we see the fitness of action, there is an immediate production of good.It is not just then to assert that the heart cannot be the spring of good actions, without the actings of God. It is the seat and source of both evil and good. Man is capable of giving glory to God, and of doing the contrary. He is constituted to answer all the purposes of social felicity, and to act a part suitable to, and becoming that reason and understanding, which God hath given him to guide his steps; and he may, on the contrary, by abusing his liberty, act an unsocial part in the creation, and do great dishonour to his Maker, by the evil imaginations of his heart, and the violence his hand commits. This hath been the state of human nature from the fall to the flood, and from the flood to our time. The human race have a natural ability for good or evil, and are at liberty for the choice of either of these. If thou doest well, Cain, who hast power, and is at liberty to do evil, thou shalt be accepted. And if thou doest not well, who hast power, and is at liberty to do good, sin lieth at the door. If this had not been the case of Cain, (and of others since his days), it seems to me at present, that God would act an unequal part with his creatures. Can happiness or misery be called reward or punishment, unless[Page 133]
the creature can voluntarily chuse or avoid the thing which renders him the object of infliction or glory? I think not. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that every one may receive the things done in his body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. The agency of a serpent will be no plea then, for a Cain, I suppose: nor will Abel's title to an inheritance depend only on the good brought forth in him by the Lord. -And as to a self-sufficiency or independency in all this, as often charged, I can see none, for the reason already given, to wit, that my natural powers are as much the gift of God to me as supernatural powers can be, and render me as dependent a being. They are derived from him: It is his given powers I use, and if I make a right use of them, to answer the great and wise purpose I was created for, the good application must be as valuable as if I had applied supernatural powers to the same purpose.What you say, sir, (Mrs. Price answered) has reason in it, to be sure: but it seems inconsistent with the language of the Bible, and takes away the Grace of God intirely, and the principal evidence of the Christian religion: As to the necessary guilt of mankind, Moses says;-and God saw, that the wickedness of man was great in the earth; and that every imagination of the thoughts of[Page 134]
his heart, was only evil continually: and it repented the Lord, that he had made man on the earth, etc. And again;-The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence: and God looked upon the earth, and behold it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted his way on the earth. And God said unto Noah, the end of all flesh is come before me, for the earth is filled with violence thro' them; and behold, I will destroy them with the earth. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. -The prophet Jeremiah does likewise affirm, The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked. And St. Paul declares from Psalm 14 and 53. There is none righteous, no not one; there is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after God. They are all gone out of the way, they are altogether become unprofitable; there is none that doth good, no not one. Their throat is an open sepulchre; with their tongues have they used deceit; the poison of asps is under their lips: whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood. Destruction and misery are in their ways. And the way of peace have they not known.Then as to grace, or the operation of the Spirit, to cure this miserable condition of mankind, Peter said unto them, repent, and be baptized every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive[Page 135]
the gift of the Holy Ghost, for the promise is unto you and your children, and to all that are afar off. This is a very extensive declaration both as to time and place. After Peter had told the people, the God of our fathers raised up Jesus whom ye slew, and hanged on a tree, him hath God exalted with his right hand, to be a prince and a Saviour, for to give repentance unto Israel, and forgiveness of sins, and we are his witnesses of these things, and so also is the Holy Ghost, whom God hath given to them that obey him: the apostle adds, then they, (the Gentiles) were filled with the Holy Ghost. All who obeyed, without distinction, had the Holy Ghost given them, and it was a witness to them of the truth of Christ's divine mission, and the good effects of it, according to the promise of the Lord, to wit, he shall testify of me.St. Paul likewise tells us, if any man have not the spirit of Christ, he is none of his. And if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin, but the spirit is life, because of righteousness; but if the spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead, dwell in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead, shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his spirit that dwelleth in you. Therefore brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh to live after the flesh, for if ye live after the flesh ye shall die; but if ye thro' the spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. For[Page 136]
as many as are led by the spirit of God, they are the sons of God. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry Abba Father, the spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit, that we are the children of God. -Here we see the necessity of having the spirit of Christ, and that those who have it not, do not belong to him. They are none of his. We may likewise observe, that it mortifies the deeds of the body, and quickens the soul to a life of holiness: the passage likewise shews, that the spirit bears witness with our spirits, and by an evidence peculiar to itself, gives us a certain sense, or understanding of it.In short, Sir, a great number of texts might be produced, to shew not only the work and effect of the Divine spirit upon our minds; but that, it is an evidence, the principal evidence and ground of certainty to believers, respecting the truth of christianity. I will mention however only two or three more, and then shall be glad to hear what you say to those things.What man knoweth the spirit of man, save the spirit of man which is in him? even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the spirit of God. Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which is of God, that we might know the things which are freely[Page 137]
given to us of God. -Ye have an unction from the Holy one, and ye know all things. These things have I written to you, concerning them that seduce you; but the anointing which ye have received of him, abideth in you, and ye need not that any teach you, but as the same anointing teacheth you of all things, and is truth, and is no lie, and even as it hath taught you, ye shall abide in it. -Hereby we know that he abideth in us by his spirit, which he hath given us. Hereby we know that we dwell in him, and he in us, because he hath given us of his spirit.What do you say to all this? do not the sacred passages I have repeated seem to declare in the planest manner the necessary iniquity of man; that this is to be cured only, and his nature rectified by the operation of the Divine spirit; and that the effusion of the spirit, both as to instruction and evidence, was not peculiar to the infancy of christianity? This appears to my understanding. The very essence of the christian religion I think from these scriptures consists in the power and efficacy of the spiritual principle.69 What you have said madam, (I replied) seems strong indeed in defence of the weakness of man, and the operation of the spirit, and I should be of your way of thinking as to the manifestation of it, but that I imagine the thing may be explained in a different[Page 138]
manner. Let us review our religion, if you please, and perhaps we may find, that another account may be given of sanctification, and the renewing the mind into a state of holiness.When God called this world into being, his purpose was without all peradventure, that his rational creatures might enjoy the noblest pleasures, and by conforming their conduct to the fitness and relation of things, from a due regard to the authority of the first cause, by whom this fitness and relation were wisely constituted, secure all the blessings of this life, and honour, and glory, and immortality, in some future state of existence. This I think was the case. True religion was to form and fix every good principle in the human mind, produce all righteousness in the conversation, and thereby render mankind the blessed of the universal Father. They were to worship the one true God; the possessor of all being, and the fountain of all good; to believe in him, and have their trust and dependence always on him; to be pure and peaceable, gentle and full of mercy, without partiality, without hypocrisy, and so devoted to holiness and obedience, to every virtue and every good work which the law of reason can require from men; that after a long life spent in acting a part the most honourable to God, and the most[Page 139]
advantageous to mankind, in obeying the dictates of reason, and thereby imitating the example of God; they might be translated to the regions of immortality and day, where the first and great original displays as it were face to face the perfections of the Deity, and from an all-perfect and holy being receive the vast rewards he has prepared for those, who, in this first state, have been to all the purposes of life and religion, perfect as he is perfect. For these reasons did the supreme director, the greatest and the best Being in the universe, command the human race into existence. He gave them faculties to conduct them here through various scenes of happiness to the realms of immortality and immutable felicity. It was a Godlike design.But it was not very long before this human race became corrupt, and not only did evil in the sight of the Lord, but ceased to apprehend the first cause as one most perfect mind. The natural notions of moral perfection which reason and the light of nature supply, they no longer minded, nor thought of what is fit and reasonable to be done in every case. The passions began to influence and direct their lives: just and pure ideas of the Deity were lost, false ones took place, and the mischief and its fatal consequences became very great. It was a melancholy[Page 140]
scene! The exalted notions of one glorious God, and of that true religion which subsists in the expectation of a future state, were no longer known, nor did the race ever think of approving themselves in the eye of an all perfect and holy being. Superstition and iniquity prevailed, and the spread of evil was wide.God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth-the thoughts of his heart, evil continually, &c. as you have before quoted from the book of Genesis; and because the wickedness of the tenth generation was so great, and men no longer endeavoured after those perfections, which are natural and proper to rational minds;-no longer thought of conforming themselves to the divine nature, or strove to imitate the excellencies of it, tho' constituted to give glory to their Maker, and endued with a reason and understanding sufficient to teach them the rule of duty, and guide their steps in the ways of true religion; but against the light of their own minds, acted the most impious and unsociable part; therefore God repented that he had made them, that is, he did what is the product of repentance in men, when they undo, as far as it is in their power, what they repent of, and destroyed his own work by that desolating judgment, the flood. This seems to be the truth of the case. The words of Moses do not mean the state of human[Page 141]
nature on account of the fall. They express only the wickedness of the tenth generation as a reason for the deluge at that time. There is not the least ground for asserting from this passage in the sacred historian, that man was unable to do good by his natural powers, and that his crimes were a resisting the actings of God upon his mind. The impiety of this generation was a mere abuse of free will, and acting against the plain dictates of their own minds: therefore, when wilful oppression and sensuality filled the earth, God destroyed the world by an inundation. Noah only, who was a just man, and perfect in his generation, with his family escaped.This terrible execution of an awful vengeance on the guilty race, demonstrated to the survivors, and to all the ages to come, the great malignity of sin, and the uncontrolable supremacy of the divine government. As the venerable Patriarch and his family sailed over the bosom of the boundless ocean of waters, and above the wrecks and ruins of this terrestrial world, they adored to be sure with grateful hearts, the Almighty Father of virtue and goodness, who had so wonderfully preserved them, and were convinced by the amazing, striking evidence, that sin is the greatest infamy and degradation of our reasonable nature; that it has an insuperable repugnancy and irreversible contrariety, to our[Page 142]
true happiness, and is infamous, pernicious, and ruinous, by the sentence of the Almighty. The dreadful event unanswerably evinced his constant actual cognizance of enormous faith and manners, and his unchangeable displeasure with them. This truth, which was learnt at first, by the expulsion from Paradise, and the sad inheritance of Mortality, they saw again republished in the most awful manner. This gave undoubtedly a very religious turn to their minds, and they determined to be sure to adhere to those excellent principles and practices, which had been, thro' God's goodness, their security in the general desolation, and to flee the contrary malignant ones which had procured that desolation on the rest. In a degree suitable to their nature and ability, they resolved to imitate the perfections of God, and to employ the powers and faculties of reason in endeavouring to be just, and righteous, and merciful. And as the amazing operation of God in the deluge called for their wonder and praise, we must think their hearts glowed with the sense of his goodness to them, and that they extolled his mercy and power in the salvation they had received. So we are told by an inspired writer. Noah restored the antient rites of divine service, and built an altar to the Lord. And the Lord smelled a sweet Savour, and said, Never any more will I curse the[Page 143]
ground for man's sake, tho' the imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth; because he will not hearken to the voice of reason, and with the greatest ardor and contention of mind, labour to attain a conformity to the divine nature in the moral perfections of it; which is the true dignity of man, and the utmost excellence of human souls. Neither will I again smite any more every living creature as I have done. While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease.Thus did God enter into a covenant with Noah, and his sons, and their seed; and as the late amazing occurrences must incline the spectators of the flood to piety and goodness; and the fathers of the postdiluvian world were careful to instruct their children in the several parts of the stupendous fact, and from the whole inculcate the Being and Perfections of God, his universal dominion and actual providence and government over all things, his love of virtue and goodness and infinite detestation of all sin; to which we may add, that the imitation of God is not a new principle introduced into religion by revelation, but has its foundation in the reason and nature of things;-we may from hence conclude, that the rising generation were persons of conspicuous devotion, and followed[Page 144]
after the moral virtues, the holiness, justice and mercy which the light of nature discovers. They were, I believe, most excellent mortals for some time. They obeyed to be sure every dictate of reason, and adored and praised the invisible Deity; the Supreme immutable mind.But this beautiful scene had an end, and man once more forgot his Maker and himself. He prostituted the honor of both, by robbing God of the obedience due to him, and by submitting himself a slave to the elements of the world. When he looked up to the heavens, and saw the glory of the sun and stars, instead of praising the Lord of all, he foolishly said, These are thy Gods, O Man! A universal apostacy from the primitive religion prevailed. They began with the heavenly bodies, or sydereal Gods, and proceeded to heroes, brutes, and images, till the world was overflowed with an inundation of idolatry, and superstition; even such superstition, as nourished under the notion of Religion, and pleasing the Gods, the most bestial impurities, the most inhuman and unnatural cruelties, and the most unmanly and contemptible follies. Moral virtue and goodness were totally extinguished. When men had lost the sense of the supreme Being, the Creator, Governor, and Judge of the world, they not only ceased to be righteous and holy, but became[Page 145]
necessarily vitious and corrupt in practice; for iniquity flows from corrupt religion, as the waters from the spring. The principles and ceremonies of the established idolatries gave additional strength to mens natural inclinations, to intemperance, lust, fraud, violence, and every kind of unrighteousness and debauchery. Long before the days of Moses this was the general case. Idolatry had violated all the duties of true religion, and the most abominable practices by constitution were authorised. The Phalli (11) 70 and the Mylli (12) 71 , rites that modesty forbids to explain, were esteemed principal parts of their Ritual; virgins before marriage were to sacrifice their chastity to the honor of Venus; (13) 72[Page 146]
men were offered upon the Altars for Sacrifices; and children were burnt alive to Moloch[Page 147]
and Adramalech. In a word, the most abominable immoralities universally prevailed; with the encouragements of religion, men were led into intemperance, uncleanness, murders, and many vices, inconsistent with the prosperity and peace of society, as well as with the happiness of private persons; and that such iniquities might have a perpetual source, the most shameful Idolatries were preserved in opposition to the knowledge and[Page 148]
worship of the One true God. So general was this corruption and idolatry, that the infection seized the descendants of Shem, the pious race. Even Terah, the father of Abram, we find charged with it. And Abram himself was culpable I think in this respect, as the word Asebes imports. It is rendered in our Bible ungodly, but it signifies more properly idolatry, and that is what St. Paul in the 4th chapter to the Romans hints. The Apostle speaking of Abraham, says,-But to him that worketh not, but believeth in him that justifieth the ungodly, that is, an ungodly Idolater, who has no manner of claim to the blessings of God, he must be justified upon the foot, not of his own prior obedience, but of God's Mercy.In such a calamitous state, a Revelation to restore the Law of Nature, and make it more fully and clearly known, to enforce its observance, to afford helps and motives to the better performance of what it enjoins, and relieve the guilty mind against all its doubts, would certainly be a merciful vouchsafement from God to mankind, and be much for their advantage and happiness; and therefore, in the year from the flood 428 73 , to provide for the restoration of the true religion, and preserve the knowledge and worship of the One true God on earth, in opposition to the prevailing idolatry, and the gross immoralities[Page 149]
that were the effects of idolatrous principles and practices, Jehovah commanded Abraham to leave his country, his kindred, and his father's house, and proceed with his family to the land of Canaan. Here God entered into Covenants with Abraham 74 and his posterity, to be instruments in the hands of providence for bringing about great designs in the world-that he and his posterity were to be the Church of God, and depositaries of a hope, that the Covenant limited to Abraham and his chosen seed, was to grow in the fulness of time into a blessing upon all the nations of the earth. Abraham was at this time 75 years old, and God added to the patriarchal worship the visible mark of Circumcision, as a seal of a covenant between himself and Abraham.Yet how fit soever such a visible mark might be, to keep in remembrance the covenant between God and the family of Abraham, it was found in experience, insufficient to preserve them from the idolatrous customs of their neighbours. -Some new laws, some further constitutions of worship were to be added, or, as the family of Abraham were situated in the midst of idolaters and unrighteous ones, it was foreseen they would soon fall from the essentials of religion; and instead of preserving a right knowledge of God, of his Being, Perfections and Government,[Page 150]
a just sense of the reverence all men owe to him, from a firm belief of his Being, Power, Dominion, Justice, and Goodness, and an hearty concern to obey the known Will of God in all things; doing what is pleasing in his sight, seeking, and hoping their perfection and happiness, in the likeness, and in the image of God; they would, on the contrary, serve other Gods, and make their idolatry, not a matter of harmless speculation, but a fountain of the most dangerous immoralities; and therefore, as it was highly fit in it self, and well becoming the wisdom of God, he gave Moses a christianity in hieroglyphics, that is, a tabernacle, a shechinah, a priesthood, an altar, sacrifices, laws moral and ceremonial, with every constituent part of the hebrew ritual; being figures of a better shekinah, temple, priest, altar, sacrifice, revelation and blessings ---figurative representations of the more perfect constitutions in the days of Messiah the King. -----This was in the year 875 after the flood, and 1491 before Christ. By a ritual so becoming the wisdom of God, given for a preservative against idolatrous principles, and as a dispensation preparatory to that future heavenly religion, the Hebrew nation were guarded against the surrounding corruptions of the world, and raised up the defenders[Page 151]
of true religion, to preserve the knowledge and worship of the One true God.But as mankind would not follow the light of nature, which is sufficient, when attended to, for a constant universal practice of piety and morality; so neither would they be engaged by various reveled laws, from time to time given, and by the calls and lessons of many prophets, to the practice of true religion and righteousness; but as the heart is the seat and source of wickedness in man, according to the prophet Jeremiah, so even the hearts of the Jews became deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked. And the Prophet goes on to shew, not the necessary inability of man without experiences, or an operating spirit within, (as you suppose, madam); but that, tho' men thus wickedly deceive one another, yet they cannot possibly by such a wilful desperate piece of wickedness deceive their Maker, because to him the most secret recesses of their hearts lie open; and, consequently, in the issue, they deceive themselves, seeing God, who knows the deceit which is lodged in their hearts, will render unto them according to their works, and according to the fruit of their doings: so that their hope and expectation will be disappointed, even as a partridge is disappointed that sitteth on eggs, and hatcheth them not.
[Page 152]
And as St. Paul says from the xiv. and liii. psalm, there was none righteous, no not one; there is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after God; and so on, as you madam, have quoted the verses, in which the Apostle did not intend to shew the necessary pollution of man without the help of grace; but the groundlessness of that opinion which the Jews had gone into, that they were the only people which pleased God; for they were as guilty as the Gentiles were in transgressing the law of nature. Neither of them had any legal title to justification. They were all very great transgressors. The throat of Jew and Gentile an open sepulchre: their tongues, deceit: the poison of asps under their lips: their mouths, full of cursing and bitterness: their feet, swift to shed blood. Destruction and misery in their ways: and the way of peace have they not known: Therefore the justification of the Jew as well as the Gentile must be of grace, and not of debt.In this was manifested the inestimable love of God in the redemption of the world by Jesus Christ. Tho' Jew and Gentile were qualified to discern and do both good and evil, and the Jew had a written law as a further assistance, but nevertheless they violated the plain dictates of natural reason, and the divine precepts of the law, and by unrighteousness and impurity, rendered themselves objects of[Page 153]
judgment and condemnation; yet the father of the universe, in compassion to mankind, sent a divine teacher from heaven, Christ, the true Prophet that was to come into the world, and by his divinely reveled testimony and authority, attempts to abolish the superstition of men, reclaim their wickedness, and bring them back to the true spiritual worship of God, and to that holiness of life and manners which is agreeable to the uncorrupted light and dictates of nature. This was love. The blessed God, in compassion to human ignorance and wickedness, contracted by men's own fault, gives them an express revelation of his will, and re-establishes the rule of pure uncorrupt religion and morality. He declares those terms of sinful man's reconcilement to him which he was pleased to accept. Grace is manifested in the gospel to turn men from their vanities, or idol service, unto the living God, who made heaven and earth, and by the doctrine and sacrifice of Jesus Christ, to redeem us from all iniquity, and purify to himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works: -That denying all ungodlyness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world, looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearance of the great God; who will judge the world by that divine person, and great temporary minister, whom he sent before to[Page 154]
destroy sin, and the kingdom of Satan; and to bring mankind into a perfect obedience to the will of the supreme Being. This renders christianity a heavenly thing. Revelation thus explained is beautiful and useful to an extreme degree. It does not contradict, but strengthens the obligations of natural religion.Your account, Sir, (Mrs. Price answered) of man and religion is different indeed from mine, and I must allow your explications have reason in them: but still they do not satisfy me, nor can I part with my own opinion. Two things in particular to me appear very strange in your scheme. It seems to take away the necessity of the christain revelation, if natural religion, duly attended to, was perfect, and sufficient for virtue and holiness, and thereby to gain the favor of God. If reason alone can do the work, if men please, then what need of the gospel? -If men will consider, (and without consideration no scheme can be of service), they may as well turn their thoughts to the law of nature as to the law of grace, if there is no difference betwixt the rule of nature and the law of Christ, with regard to the knowledge of God, the maker of heaven and earth, and the worship due to him on that account, and the practice of virtue and morality.
[Page 155]
In the next place, if I understand you right, the grace of God is of no use at all in religion, as you account for salvation. What is out of order within us, in the mind and its faculties, the will and its affections, and wants to be set right in good thoughts and works, our own reason, in your notion of religion, is sufficient to regulate, and unassisted by the illumination of the holy spirit of God, we may live in an uncorrupted state of piety and morality, and so save our souls, if we please. This is what I cannot believe. The grace of God in the gospel is the glory and comfort of the christian religion. A divine operation that renews and sanctifies the mind is an invaluable blessing, and in a manner inexpressibly charming, satisfies me beyond hesitation, that the christian religion is true, while it puts me in the actual possession of the good effects of it. The spirit of God discovers to me the state of my own mind, in all the circumstances of a christian life, sets my follies, my neglects, and my failings, in order before me, which is the first right step in order to the overcoming them; and then observing the discoveries I was not able to make my self, and having a strong faith in the divine power and sufficiency, I am enabled to gain victories my insufficient reason could never obtain. May this divine monitor then abide in my breast. It is by the heavenly assistance[Page 156]
of the holy spirit only, as vouchsafed in the christian dispenation, that I can secure for myself eternal life. The wise and prudent of this world may think as they please of this matter, and produce reasonings against it beyond my power to answer; but for my part, I must consider it as the principle of my salvation, and think I cannot be thankful enough for the inestimable blessing. It is to me a glorious instance of the great wisdom and goodness of God.Madam, (I replyed) in relation to your first objection, that I make no difference between reveled and natural religion, for nature is as sufficient as grace, in my account, I assure you that I think the revelation of the gospel excels the best scheme of natural religion that could be proposed; in declaring the terms of reconcilement, in demonstrating the divine wrath against sin, in the method of shewing mercy by the death of God's beloved Son, and the promise of free pardon on the condition of repentance and newness of life. This manner gives unspeakable comfort to repenting sinners. It gives the greatest encouragement to engage them to the love of God and the practice of all his commandments; an encouragement that reason could not discover. To christianity therefore the true preference is due. Tho' philosophy or the doctrine of reason may reform men, yet the christian religion[Page 157]
is a clearer and more powerful guide. It improves the light of reason by the supernatural evidence and declaration of God's will, and the means of man's redemption is a more efficacious motive and obligation to universal obedience than nature could ever with certainty propose. A revelation that has the clearest and strongest evidence of being the divine will, must be the most easy and effectual method of instruction, and be more noticed than the best human teaching: and this will of God being truly and faithfully committed to writing, and preserved uncorrupt, must always be the best and surest rule of faith and manners. It is a rule absolutely free from all those errors and superstitions, both of belief and practice, which no human composure was ever before free from, or, probably, would have been free from, without the assistance of such a revelation. Nor is this all. This is not the only superior excellence of our holy religion.A Mediator and crucified Redeemer brought into the Christian revelation, has a noble effect on a considering mind, and shews the reasonableness of the gospel-dispensation. The wisest and most rational heathens ever were for sacrifices and mediators, as the greatness of God was thereby declared, and that not only sin deserved punishment, but mens lives to be forfeited by their breach of[Page 158]
the divine laws: and when a divine person, made man, like unto us, appears instead of all other mediators, by whom, as the instrument of the means of salvation, we are to offer up our prayers to the Only true God; and his voluntary dying in testimony of the truth of his mission and doctrine, is appointed to be instead of all other sacrifices, and to remain a memorial that God requires no atonement of us, but repentance and newness of life; and the spotless virtues and obedience of this divine Redeemer, are to be a most perfect and moving example for us to imitate; -this renders christianity worthy of God, and makes it the perfection of religion. Great then are the advantages which the Revelation of Christ Jesus has above mere reason, darkened by the clouds of error and a general corruption. It is the most perfect rule of life. It is the most powerful means to promote a constant uniform practice of virtue and piety. It advances human nature to its highest perfection, fills it with all the fruits of righteousness, and grants us privileges and blessings far superior to what we could attain any other way.With regard to the second objection, that I take away the grace of God, to preserve the dignity of human nature, this is far from my intention. I do indeed think, that as the Gospel was given for[Page 159]
the noblest purpose; to wit, to call in an extraordinary manner upon mankind, to forsake that vice and idolatry, the corrupt creed of polytheism, the guilt of superstition, their great iniquities, violent passions, and worldly affections, which are all contrary to reason, and disgrace human nature; and to practise that whole system of morality, which they must know to be most useful to them;-that they might turn to a religion which had but One object, the Great Invisible Being, all-knowing and all-sufficient, to whom all the intelligent world are to make their devout applications; because he is an infinite, independent, sovereign mind, who has created all things, and absolutely rules and governs all; possesses all natural perfections, exists in all duration, fills all space with his presence, and is the omniscient witness of all their difficulties and wants;----and that since they were bound by all the ties of moral duty to obey this one God, and observe the rational institutions of religion, therefore they should make it the labor of their whole lives to excel in holiness and righteousness, and by virtue and piety unite themselves to God, and entitle themselves to glory at the great day: ---That as this is the nature, end, and design of the christian revelation, so I do think the gospel of our salvation, the word of truth, (as an apostle calls it) is sufficient for the[Page 160]
purpose, without immediate impulses. As we have a reasonable, intellectual nature, there is no want of mechanical powers. The words of Christ, which are the words of God, are, our life, and will, if attended to, and powerfully enable us to practise good works, and to excel, and persevere therein. I can do all these things, through Christ, who strengtheneth me, that is, through the written directions of Christ, and through the arguments and motives of the christian doctrine. To say otherwise of the gospel, is, in my opinion, injurious to it.God may, to be sure, give special aids to men, whenever he thinks fit. He may, by an extraordinary agency, render our faculties more capable of apprehension, where divine things are concerned:---may awaken a dormant idea, which lay neglected in the memory, with unusual energy;---may secretly attract the more attentive regard of the mind, and give it an inclination and an ability of tracing its various relations, with an unusual attention, so that a lustre before quite unknown shall be (as it were) poured upon it; ---the spirit of God may render the mind more susceptible and more tenacious of divine knowledge; I believe he often does by interposition, if in the spirit of Christ's doctrine we ask it of the great Father of Lights, the Author of all the understanding divided[Page 161]
among the various ranks of created Beings; who, as he first formed the minds of angels and men, continues the exercise of their intellectual faculties, and one way or another communicates to them all the knowledge of every kind which they possess; (in which view all our knowledge of every kind may be called a revelation from God, and be ascribed, as it is by Elihu in Job, to the inspiration of the Almighty:) This the holy Spirit may do, and dissipate a prejudice that opposes truth. But this is not always necessary: nor always to be expected. It is evident from the gospel, that our Lord rather speaks of his word and doctrine, as the aids to save mens souls, than of himself, or spirit, personally considered. Abiding in him, and he in them, as necessary to their bearing fruit, signifies a strict and steady regard to his word, and the influence of that upon our minds. If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you; ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you: that is, If you continue to believe in me, and to pay a steady regard to my doctrine, you will be highly acceptable to God.In short, as no man can come unto me (says our Lord), except the Father which hath sent me draw him: that is, no man will receive my pure, sublime, and spiritual doctrine, unless he have first gained some just apprehensions concerning the general principles of religion: but if he has a good notion of[Page 162]
God and his perfections, and desires to advance in virtue, he will come unto me, and hearken to that revelation, which contains the best directions for the performance of all the duties, and the greatest incitement to virtue, piety and devotion:-so, no man can come to the Father but by the Son, that is, by obeying the written word, and proceeding in that way in which the Son has declared it to be the will of the Father, that men should come to him, namely, by keeping God's commandments, and by repentance and amendment of life; there being no other name, or way given among men, but this way given or declared by Jesus Christ, by which they may be saved. -In all this, there is not a word of supernatural light or operation; tho' such operation, as before observed, there may be. There is not a hint of man's natural inability.To the glorious Gospel then, the gospel of our salvation, the word of truth, the word of life, let us come, and with diligence and impartiality study it. Let us follow the truth we there find in every page, and it will enable us to triumph over the temptations of allurement and of terror. We shall become the children of God by the spirit of adoption. We shall be easy and happy in this life, and glorious and ever blessed in that which is to come. If we obey the gospel of the Son of God, and hearken to his word,[Page 163]
he will take us under his guardian care. He descended from Heaven, to deliver us from everlasting ruin, he purchased us with the price of his own blood, and if we live up to the word of truth, he will conduct us safely through life and death, into the abode of holy and happy spirits, and at length raise our bodies from the dust, and fix our compleat persons in a state of immortal glory and felicity. -This is my sense of religion. Where I am wrong, I shall ever be glad to be set right.Mrs. Price made no reply, and so ended this remarkable conversation. On whose side the truth is, the reader is to judge. What she says for supernatural operation is strong and pious to be sure: and considering Mrs. Price had no learning, and was almost without any reading, I thought it very wonderful to hear her on this, and many other subjects. She was such another genius as Chubb, but on the other side of the question; if she had been able to write as sensibly and correctly as she talked on several articles of religion, she would have made a good author. So much goodness and good sense I have not very often found in her kind. They merit a memorial in a journal of the curious things that have occurred to me in my life time.28.The 13th of June 1725, I took my leave of my friend, John Price, and his admirable wife, promising to visit them again as[Page 164]
soon as it was in my power, and proceeded on my journey in quest of Mr. Turner. 75 I would not let Price go with me, on second thoughts, as many sad accidents might happen in this rough and desolate part of the world, and no relief in such case to be found. If I fell, there was no one belonging to me to shed a tear for me: but if a mischief should befall Jack Price, his wife would be miserable indeed, and I the maker of a breach in the sweetest system of felicity that love and good sense had ever formed. This made me refuse his repeated offers to accompany me. All I would have was a boy and horse of his, to carry some provisions wet and dry, as there was no public house to be found in ascending those tremendous hills, or in the deep vales through which I must go; nor any house that he knew of beyond his own.With the rising sun then I set out, and was charmed for several hours with the air and views. The mountains, the rocky precipices, the woods and the waters, appeared in various striking situations every mile I travelled on, and formed the most astonishing points of view. Sometimes I was above the clouds, and then crept to inchanting vallies below. Here glins were seen that looked as if the mountains had been rent asunder to form the amazing scenes: and there, forests and falling streams covered the sides of the hills. Rivers in many places, in the most[Page 165]
beautiful cascades, were tumbling along; and cataracts from the tops of mountains came roaring down. The whole was grand, wonderful, and fine. On the top of one of the mountains I passed over at noon; the air was piercing cold, on account of its great height, and so subtle, that we breathed with difficulty, and were a little sick. From hence I saw several black subjacent clouds big with thunder, and the lightning within them rolled backwards and forwards, like shining bodies of the brightest lustre. One of them went off in the grandest horrors through the vale below, and had no more to do with the pike I was on than if it had been a summit in another planet. The scene was prodigious fine. Sub pedibus ventos & rauca tonitrua calcat.Till the evening, I rid and walked it, and in numberless windings round unpassable hills, and by the sides of rivers it was impossible to cross, journeyed a great many miles: but no human creature, or any kind of house, did I meet with in all the long way, and as I arrived at last at a beautiful lake, whose banks the hand of nature had adorned with vast old trees, I sat down by this water in the shade to dine, on a neat's tongue I had got from good Mrs. Price; and was so delighted with the striking beauties and stillness of the place, that I determined to pass the night in this sweet retreat. Nor was it one[Page 166]
night only, if I had my will, that I would have rested there. Often did I wish for a convenient little lodge by this sweet water side, and that with the numerous swans, and other fowl that lived there, I might have spent my time in peace below, till I was removed to the established seat of happiness above.29.76 Had this been possible, I should have avoided many an affliction, and had known but few of those expectations and disappointments, which render life a scene of emptiness, and bitterness itself. My years would have rolled on in peace and wisdom, in this sequestered, delightful scene, and my silent meditations had been productive of that good temper and good action, which the resurrection of the dead, the dissolution of the world, the judgment day, and the eternal state of men, require us to have. Free from the various perplexities, and troubles I have experienced by land and sea, in different parts of the world, I should have lived, in this paradice of a place, in the enjoyment of that fine happiness, which easy country business and a studious life afford; and might have made a better preparation for that hour which is to disunite me, and let my invisible spirit depart to the shades of eternity. Happy they, who in some such rural retirement, can employ some useful hours every day in the management of a little comfortable farm, and devote[Page 167]
the greater portion of their time to sacred knowledge, Heavenly piety, and angelick goodness; which cannot be dissolved when the thinker goes, nor be confined to the box of obscurity, under the clods of the earth: but will exist in our souls for ever, and enable us to depart in peace to the happy regions. This has ever made me prefer a retired country life, when it was in my power to enjoy it. But be it town or country, the main business, my good readers, should be to secure an inheritance in that eternal world, where the sanctified live with God and his Christ. Getting, keeping, multiplying money; dress, pleasure, entry; are not only little things for such beings as we are: they are indeed sad principal work for creatures that are passing away to an everlasting state; there to lament their lost day, and talents misapplied, in dreadful agonies, in the habitations of darkness; -or, to remain for ever in the habitations of light, peace, and joy; if you have laboured to obtain, and improve in the graces and virtuous qualities which the gospel recommends. These are the treasure and possession worth a christian's acquiring. These only are portable into the eternal world; when the body that was cloathed in purple and fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day, is laid in a cold and narrow cave. Take my advice then, reader. Be ready. Let us so think and act in this first state, that in the next, we[Page 168]
may meet in the regions of purity and righteousness, serenity and joy.30.77 The lake I have mentioned was the largest I had seen in this wild part, being above a mile in length, and more than half a mile broad; and the water that filled it, burst with the greatest impetuosity from the inside of a rocky mountain, that is very wonderful to behold. It is a vast craggy precipice, that ascends till it is almost out of sight, and by its gloomy and tremendous air, strikes the mind with a horror that has something pleasing in it. This amazing cliff stands perpendicular at one end of the lake, at the distance of a few yards, and has an opening at the bottom, that is wide enough for two coaches to enter at once, if the place was dry. In the middle of it, there is a deep channel, down which the water rushes with a mighty swiftness and force, and on either side, the stone rises a yard above the impetuous stream. The ascent is easy, flat and plane. How far it goes, I know not, being afraid to ascend more than forty yards; not only on account of the terrors common to the place, from the fall of so much water with a strange kind of roar, and the height of the arch which covers the torrent all the way; but because as I went up, there was of a sudden, an encrease of noise so very terrible, that my heart failed me, and a trembling[Page 169]
almost disabled me. The rock moved under me, as the frightful sounds encreased, and as quick as it was possible for me, I came into day again. It was well I did; for I had not been many minutes out, before the water overflowed its channel, and filled the whole opening in rushing to the lake. The increase of the water, and the violence of the discharge, were an astonishing sight. I had a great escape.31.78 As the rocky mountain I have mentioned, is higher than either Snowden in North-Wales, or Kedar-Idris in Merionethshire, (which have been thought the highest mountains in this island), that is, it is full a mile and an half high from the basis, as I found by ascending it with great toil on the side that was from the water, and the top was a flat dry rock, that had not the least spring, or piece of water on it, how shall we account for the rapid flood that proceeded from its inside? Where did this great water come from? -I answer, might it not flow from the great abyss-and the great encrease of it, and the fearful noise, and the motion of the rock, be owing to some violent commotion in the abyss, occasioned by some natural or supernatural cause?32.79 That there is such an abyss, no one can doubt that believes revelation, and from reason and history it is credible, that there are violent concussions on this vast collection[Page 170]
of water, by the divine appointment: and therefore, I imagine it is from thence the water of this mountain proceeds, and the great overflowing and terrifying sound at certain times. To this motion of the abyss, by the divine power exerted on it, I ascribe the earthquakes; and not to vapor, or electricity. As to electricity, which Dr. Stukeley makes the cause of the deplorable downfall of Lisbon * 80 , in his book lately published, (called, The Philosophy of Earthquakes), there are many things to be objected against its being the origin of such calamities:-one objection is, and it is an insuperable one, that electrical shocks are ever momentary, by every experiment, but earthquakes are felt for several minutes. Another is, that many towns have been swallowed up in earthquakes, tho' Lisbon was only overthrown. Such was the case of the city of Callao, within two leagues of Lima. Tho' Lima was only tumbled into ruins, October 28, 1746; yet Callao sunk downright, with all its inhabitants, and an unfathomable sea now covers the finest port in Peru, as I have seen on the spot. - In the earthquake at Jamaica, June 7, 1692, in which several thousands perished, it is certain, that not only many houses, and a great number of people, were intirely swallowed up; but that, at many of the gapings or openings of the earth, torrents of water that formed great rivers, issued forth. This[Page 171]
I had from a man of veracity then on the spot, who was an eye-witness of these things, and expected himself every minute to descend to the bowels of the earth, which heaved and swelled like a rolling sea. Now to me the electrical stroke does not appear sufficient to produce these things. The power of electricity, to be sure is vast and amazing. It may cause great tremors and undulations of the earth, and bring down all the buildings of a great city: but as to splitting the earth to great depths, and forcing up torrents of water, where there was no sign of the fluid element before, I question much if the vehemence of the elemental electric fire does this. -Beside, when mountains and cities sink into the earth, and the deepest lakes are now seen to fill all the place where they once stood, as has been the case in many countries, where could these mighty waters come, but from the abyss?. -The great lake Oroquantur in Pegu, was once a vast city. In Jamaica, there is a large deep lake where once a mountain stood. -In an earthquake in China, in the province of Sanci, deluges of water burst out of the earth, Feb. 7, 1556, and inundated the country for 180 miles. Many more instances of this kind I might produce, exclusive of Sodom, the ground of which was inundated by an irruption of waters from beneath, (which now forms the dead sea) after the[Page 172]
city was destroyed by fire from above; that the land which had been defiled with the unnatural lusts of the inhabitants might be no more inhabited, but remain a lasting monument of the divine vengeance on such crimes, to the end of the world: and the use I would make of those I have mentioned, is to shew, that these mighty waters were from the furious concussion of the abyss that caused the earthquakes. Electricity, I think, can never make seas and vast lakes to be where there were none before. Locherne, in the county of Fermanagh, in the province of Ulster in Ireland, is thirty three miles long, and fourteen broad, and as the old Irish chronicle informs us, was once a place where large and populous towns appeared, till for the great iniquity of the inhabitants, the people and their fair habitations were destroyed in an earthquake, and mighty waters from the earth covered the place, and formed this lake. Could the electrical stroke produce this sea that was not to be found there before the destruction? Is it not more reasonable to suppose, that such vast waters have been forced by a supernatural commotion from the great abyss, in the earthquake that destroyed the towns which once stood in this place?To this then, (till I am better informed), I must ascribe such earthquakes as produce great rivers and lakes: and where no waters appear, I believe the earthquakes are caused[Page 173]
by the immediate finger of God; either operating on the abyss, tho' not so as to make the water break out on the earth; or by directing the electrical violence or stroke; or otherwise acting on the ruined cities and shattered places.33.81 For my part, I think it is a grievous mistake in our philosophical enquiries, to assign so much to second causes as the learned do. The government of the universe is given to matter and motion, and under pretence of extolling original contrivance, the execution of all is left to dead substance. It is just and reasonable (even Newton and Maclaurin say) to suppose that the whole chain of causes, or the several series of them, should center in him, as their source and fountain; and the whole system appear depending upon him, the only independent cause. Now to me this supposition does not appear either just or reasonable. I think the noble phænomena of nature ought to be ascribed to the immediate operation of the Deity. Without looking for a subtile elastic medium, to produce gravity; which medium Sir Isaac confesses he had no proof of; nor is there in reality such a thing in the universe; I imagine the divine Newton would have done better, if, after establishing the true system of nature, by demonstrating the law of gravity, he had said this gravity was the constant and undeniable evidence of the immediate influence[Page 174]
of the Deity in the material universe. A series of material causes betwixt Deity and Effect, is, in truth, concealing him from the knowledge of mortals for ever. In the moral government of the world, second causes do, because free-agents act a part; but, in the material universe to apply them, to me seems improper, as matter and motion only, that is, mechanism, come in competition with the Deity. Most certainly he constantly interposes. The Divine Power is perpetually put forth throughout all nature. Every particle of matter, must necessarily, by its nature, for ever go wrong, without the continued act of Deity. His everlasting interposition only can cause a body moving in a circle to change the direction of its motion in every point. Nor is it possible for subtile matter, the supposed cause of gravity, to know to impel bodies to a center, with quadruple force at half the distance.And as in gravity, and in the cohesion of the parts of matter, the Deity is, and acts in the motion of the celestial bodies, and in the resistance the least particles make to any force that would separate them; so is his immediate power, I think for myself, exerted not only in earthquakes and tides, but in the circulations of the blood, lymph, and chyle, in muscular motion, and in various other phænomena that might be named. Books I know have been written, and ingenious[Page 175]
books they are, to shew the causes of these things, and trace the ways they are performed by the materials themselves: but these explications never satisfied me. I had as many questions to ask, after reading these books, as I had before I looked into them, and could find no operator but infinite power conducted by infinite wisdom.82 As to the force of the moon, in raising tides, and, that spring tides are produced by the sum of the actions of the two luminaries, when the moon is in Syzygy, there is a deal of fine mathematical reasoning to prove it, which the reader may find in Dr. Halley's abstract of Sir Isaac Newton's theory of the tides; and in Dr. Rutherforth's system of natural philosophy: but nevertheless, the concomitance of water and luminary, or the revolutions of ocean and moon answering one another so exactly, that the flow always happens when the moon hangs over the ocean, and the spring tides when it is nearer the earth, which is supposed to be in the new and full moon;-this does not prove to me, that the periodical flux and reflux of the sea is derived from mechanism. As we have two ebbs and two flows in twenty-four hours, and the moon comes but once in that time to our meridian, how can the second ebb and flow be ascribed to it? and when, beneath the horizon, in the opposite hemisphere, the moon crosses the meridian again, is it credible, that[Page 176]
from the eastern and southern ocean, round Good-Hope and Cape-Horn, it should as soon overflow our coasts, as when it is vertical to the shores of Guinea? -If the moon (in conjunction with the sun) by pression and attraction, was the principal cause of flux and reflux, why is there no established tide on the Mediterranean-Sea, though of a vast breadth, and two thousand miles in length from the Streights of Gibraltar to the coasts of Syria and Palestine; but only some irregular and unaccountable swellings and falls in a few places of this sea, to wit, at Tunis, Messina, Venice, and Negropont; and these swellings, as I have seen, flowing sometimes 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 times in 24 hours; in the most irregular manner; against the fixed laws of pression and attraction, ascribed to the moon and sun, on a supposition of their causing the tides? -If pression, and the strong attractive power of the moon, and the weaker influence of the sun, forces the immense ocean twice a day from its natural quietus, and rolls it in tides, why has the Caspian Sea no Tide; no swelling or flow, re-regular or irregular, excepting that sometimes, in the space of 16 years, and never sooner, it rises many fathoms, and drowns the adjacent country; to the almost ruin, sometimes, of Astracan in Asiatick Russia; as happened when I was there to embark for Persia? - If it be said, that this is properly a lake, having[Page 177]
no communication with the ocean; yet, I answer, that it is in every quality of saltness, etc. as much a sea as any other sea; and large enough for the luminaries attraction and pression; being 500 miles from north to south, and near 400 miles in breadth from east to west: I say, large enough to avoid continuing necessarily in equilibrio, as Dr. Rutherforth says must be the case, on account of the small extent of this sea. 500 by 400 miles of sea does not require that such a sea should press equally, or that the gravity of its water should be equally diminished in every part of it, and so out of the powers, addititious and ablatitious, of the luminary; that is, the force, with which the moon encreases the waters gravity, and the force, with which the moon diminishes the waters gravity. If the moon in zenith or nadir did the work, the equilibrium of the the Caspian might be destroyed, as well as any other equilibrium of water, by force, addititious or ablatitious, or by the sum of these forces: therefore, there might, by this theory, be tides in the Caspian sea, tho' not great ones. There are small as well as great tides. The tides of the Atlantic ocean are inferior in every respect to those of the larger Pacific ocean. A quarter of a great circle of the earth, that is, an extent of ocean from east to west 90°, is only[Page 178]
required, that the tides may have their full motion. A tide of less motion may be in such an extent of sea as the Caspian.In the last place, how does the theory of tides account for the regular peculiarity of the flux and reflux of the Atlantic, different from all other tides; while at Bathsha in the kingdom of Tunquin, there never is more than one tide in 24 hours; and some days, no tide? -For my part, I resolve the whole into the immediate power of the Deity. This power is gravity, attraction, repulse. The inactivity of matter requires the constancy and universality of divine power to support the material universe, and move it as occasion requires; that is, as infinite wisdom sees most conducive to the benefit of his creation.83 Men of fine imagination may make a wonderful display of mathematical learning in accounts of gravity, etc. combined with the principles of mechanism; and electricity, which is called the immediate officer of God Almighty; but the truth is, a constant repetition of divine acts in regular and irregular motions of the earth and the seas. The finger of God moves the land and the waters.In the case of earthquakes, as electricity, or aerial power, is insufficient to produce them, in my opinion, for two reasons before given; to wit, that the electrical stroke is ever single and momentary, but the vibrations[Page 179]
of the earth, in a quake, are often 3 and 4 minutes, and have held to 7 minutes- and that, besides the swelling and trembling of the earth, it has so opened at those times, as to swallow not only houses and people, but even mountains, and to send forth great rivers and vast waters. And, as subterranean fire and vapor, I think, can never do such work, for many reasons that may be offered, we must, I think, ascribe the earthquakes to the immediate impression of divine power; by which a city is tumbled into ruins in three or four minutes, in the sad manner Lisbon was destroyed the first of November, 1755. or, the water of the great abyss is with such violence moved, that it shakes the arches of the earth, and where infinite wisdom directs, is enabled by Almighty Power to open the globe with tremendous noises, and pour forth vast torrents of water, to cover a land where once a flourishing city has stood. The electric stroke cannot be more dreadful than such exertion of omnipotence. The immediate action of the Deity, to destroy, must be as efficacious surely as any subordinate agent or cause: and it must be more terrible to the mind, as there can be no supposition of accident in ruin this way: but we see as it were the almighty arm, exerting an irresistible force, that could in the same few moments[Page 180]
that a large town and its inhabitants are destroyed, shake the whole world into one dreadful ruin, or separate it into nothing. To my apprehension, the aerial power of electricity is not so fearfully striking, as the Creator's appearing, on the spot, to shake terribly the earth: and if we consider, that it is on account of sin, that God resigns his omnipotence to his wrath, and commands his whole displeasure to arise, must not this account of an earthquake have the greatest tendency to reform the manners of the surviving people?84 As to muscular motion, if it be rightly considered, it appears very plainly to proceed from a living force, impressed ab extra; that mechanism does not act as cause in this affair; but the divine power acts in the case, as it does in many different places of the human body at once, and with inexpressible variety.Various are the accounts that learned men have given of muscular motion, and ingenious are their reasonings on the subject: but they are not satisfactory, nor do they at all explain the thing, and account for it. What is a muscle?It is to be sure a bundle of small blood vessels, consisting of arteries and their returning veins, laid one upon another in their parallel plates, running thro' the whole length of the muscle; and at small intervals, these[Page 181]
blood vessels, or longitudinal, red, and fleshy fibres, are contorted and bound about with small, transverse, and spiral ramifications and twinings of the nerves. This is a muscle: it has two ends, or tendons, fastened to two bones, one of which is fixed, and the other moveable; and by the contraction of the muscle, the moveable bone is drawn upon its fulcrum towards a fixed point. This is indisputable; and it is likewise certain, that the muscles are to be distinguished into those of voluntary, and those of natural or necessary motion: that the voluntary muscles have antagonists, which act alternately in a contrary direction, that is, are contracted by the command of the will, while the others are stretched, and again are extended, while the others are contracted: but the necessary muscles have contracting and extending powers within themselves, and need no antagonists.This being the true state of the muscles, the question is, what causes that elasticity, spring, or power of contraction and restoration, which their nervous coats and fibres have, to recover themselves against a given weight or force that stretches them? The reply is, that many unanswerable reasons can be given to prove, that this contractive restitutive force does not depend on the mixture, effervescence, or rarefaction of any fluids,[Page 182]
humours, or liquors within the body; and there is one convincing experiment that shews it.Lay open the thorax of a dog, (as I have often done) and take a distinct view of that famous muscle, the heart, in its curious and wonderful motion, while the animal is still alive. In diastole, the muscle is very red and florid, soft and yielding to the touch, and thro' it the vital fluid glows and shines; it appears in this state fully replenished and distended with blood: but in systole, as soon as it begins to contract, and the blood rushes out by the compression of the contracting fibres, the heart loses its florid colour, and becomes pale and livid, compact and solid, and evinces that, during this state of it, the muscle contracts inwardly into its own dense substance, and takes up less space than before, till it returns to its diastole: then the blood which flowed from it with velocity, during systole thro' the coronary veins into the auricles, rushes back into it thro' the coronary arteries, restores the glowing florid colour, and inflates the muscle, in order to strain the nerves for the next contraction. It is plain from hence, that the heart has less blood and fluid in time of contraction, and that the contraction is not caused by the addition of another fluid from the nerves, as the learned have asserted.
[Page 183]
And as to what they say of the longitudinal fibres being divided into innumerable little cells or bladders, which have communications with the blood vessels and nerves, and that in these vesicles, the blood and nervous fluid mix, ferment, and by rarefaction and expansion, swell and blow up the cells, and thereby inflate and distend the muscle, and increase its thickness, while its length is shortned:-this is so perplexed and unreasonable an hypothesis, that I am astonished how men of sense ever came to think of such a doctrine. There is no such nervous fluid to be found, to cause this fermentation, rarefaction, etc; and if there was, expansive force must lengthen as well as thicken, and the muscle could not be shortned in length, and swelled in thickness. The natural action of the fluids upon the solids is, to increase dimensions proportionably every way, that is, in the direction of the axis and conjugate diameter equally. Beside, if there was expansion, circulation must stop. The distention of the vesicles, and the rapid exit of the rarifying fluid could not be at once.The plain account of the matter is then, that muscular motion is performed by the elasticity of the nervous fibrillæ, contracting and restoring themselves against the stretching force of the circulating blood. The contraction of the muscle straitens and compresses the blood-vessels,[Page 184]
and forces the blood with impetuosity thro' the heart; and this squeezing or propelling force gives the fluid an impetus, that makes it return with violence upon the muscle, in the course of its circulation; then by force and impulse, it stretches the transverse and spiral nervous fibres, and so extends the contracted muscle, that drove it by contraction from itself. Upon this, the blood-vessels having obtained their due extent and capacity, the distending force of the blood of consequence ceases: but the moment it does, the contractive power of the nerves begins to act again, and restores them to a contracted dense state, by a force exactly equal to that which extended them; till the returning propelled blood re-enters the muscle, and stretches it again, as before described. Such are the two wonderful counter-forces that produce the natural involuntary motion of the heart, and carry on the circulation of the blood. You see with your eyes, in the opened live dog, this alternate contraction and extension; and as the stretching power is but a consequence of the contracting power, contraction is the spring of this wonderful action, in which our will or free agency has no concern. And to what shall we ascribe this astonishing operation, this amazing contractive power, so exactly as to time, and so constantly continued on the muscles of natural[Page 185]
or necessary motion; till the æquilibrium by some means or other be broken, and the motion is preternaturally interrupted and suspended? Will the great mechanical reasoners say, that matter does this wonder-matter, that is blind and impotent? Stuff: We must ascribe to a cause wise and powerful, not only the original contrivance of the thing, but the execution of this extraordinary scene. While you gaze upon this noblest muscle of the dog, you see the Deity at work.And if we turn our eyes from the muscles of mere natural involuntary motion, (which performs by a contracting power, acting within them), to those muscles which move the bones and members of our bodies, by the command of the will, how adorable is the wisdom and goodness of the Almighty Author of nature, not only in providing the animal machine with antagonistical muscles, one of which is contracted, while the other is extended; but for stimulating, contracting, and compressing the nervous elastic cords and blood-vessels, as our minds command or determine! there is no possibility of accounting for the directions at pleasure of the antagonistic muscles, but by resolving them into the continual presence and action of the first cause. He enforces and executes. It is the active principle gives energy and motion both to voluntary and necessary muscles.[Page 186]
This, I think, is the truth of philosophy. To suppose every thing to be effect without cause, is to reduce religion and philosophy to the same desperate state. It destroys all the principles of reason, as well as of virtue and moral conduct.To say all that can be said, in as few words as possible, upon this article, it is not only the muscular motion, necessary and spontaneous (14) 85 , that is caused by the action of the Deity; but the constant motions in the[Page 187]
stomach, lungs, intestines, and other parts of the body, are caused by an acting Divine Power. It can be demonstrated, that in the action of soft bodies upon soft bodies, the motion is always diminished; and of consequence, it must be greatly lessened in the yielding softness of the flesh and fluids of animal bodies. We see how soon water settles, after motion imprest, by the bare attrition of its parts on one another; altho' it has no obstacles to encounter, or narrow passages to move through. What then can we think of motion in such narrow twining meanders, as veins, arteries, intestines, and lacteal vessels, thro' which the fluids of animal bodies are conveyed to parts innumerable? while the blood, lymph, and chyle creep thro' such narrow winding vessels, the whole motion of those fluids must be consumed every instant by the attrition of their parts, and the force of consequence be renewed every instant. Here is a perpetual miracle. The Divine Power urges on these fluids ten thousand ways at once. Reason must confess a miraculous power indesinently and variously put forth in our bodies; while ignorance and vanity in vain attempts to account mechanically for the circulation of those fluids. We are not only fearfully and wonderfully formed in the womb, but fearfully and wonderfully[Page 188]
preserved every minute! creating power never ceases (15) 86 .The conclusion of the matter is, that the plain argument for the existence of a Deity, obvious to all, and carrying irresistible conviction with it, is from the evident contrivance and fitness of things to one another, which we meet with through all the parts of the universe. There is no need of nice and subtile reasoning in this matter: a manifest contrivance immediately suggests a contriver. It strikes like a sensation, and artful reasonings against it may puzzle us, but it is without shaking our belief. No person, for example, who knows the principles of opticks, and the structure of the eye, can believe that it is formed without skill in that science; or that the ear was formed without the knowledge of sounds. -This is a just argument, and forces our assent. But the[Page 189]
great Maclaurin should not have stopped here. The plain argument for the existence of a Deity grows stronger, when we add to it what is as evident as divine contrivance, to wit, the constant interposition of God, to support and move his creatures. Original contrivance in the works of the creation is adorable. We are certain, demonstratively certain, that the heavens, the land, and the waters, and all the creatures in them contained, are the works of the living God: but it is the present performance that strikes us like a sensation. With inexpressible pleasure we see creating power with our eyes. Which ever way we turn them, we behold Almighty Power employed, and continually acting under the direction of infinite knowledge.Since things are so, and all the works of nature, in the common voice of reason, declare the power and wisdom of the Creator, and speak his goodness in the innumerable mighty things he continually performs for our preservation and happiness, the contemplation of them should warm our hearts with the Glory of the Almighty, and make us continually praise and adore that Almighty providence, which formed and sustains not only the human race and this terrestrial globe, but numberless other worlds and their inhabitants, that hang in infinite space. These[Page 190]
mighty things displayed, ought surely to produce the devoutest prayers, and songs of praises in no common strain; and especially, if we add to those works of nature, that second creation, the still greater work of grace. Such omnipotence in wisdom and action, and such amazing goodness as we see in the christian gospel, should, I think, engage us to love and adore so great and good a Being as our Creator, and induce us to devote our lives to him.For my part, when I consider the mighty scene and prospect of nature, and turn my thoughts from thence to God's word, that heavenly law, which directs our will and informs our reason, and teaches us in all things how to pursue our own happiness, I am so struck with a sense of infinite wisdom, goodness, and action, that I cannot help extolling the king of the universe for the greatness of his power and mercy, and am necessarily engaged in a scene of praise and devotion. Indeed the heart must be as hard and cold as marble, that does not glow, nor is inflamed with ravishing love to the great Author of all things; after viewing with attention even one particular only in the works of nature, that material sun, which now shines out with light and beauty to animate and refresh the world; and in the creation of grace, that sun of righteousness, who sheds forth the[Page 191]
choicest blessings of Heaven upon the inhabitants of the earth. Can we be silent, who behold and enjoy those things! alass! too many can. Neither the Heavens, which declare the glory of God, nor the days of the gospel, nor the righteousness of the new law, are regarded by them. But the wise will ever join with all their hearts, in the most exalted prayer and praise, and adore the Giver of these good and perfect gifts; for all his blessings vouchsafed us; and especially, for the charter of his pardon granted by his blessed Son, and the promises of everlasting happiness and glory in a life to come, reason must declare it just to offer up religious praise, and make the greatest mental and moral improvement we can in this first state.34.87 Another extraordinary thing I saw in the place I have mentioned, was a water on the top of a hill, which stood at the other end of the lake, and was full as high as the mountain, from the side of which, the water poured into the lake. This loch measured three quarters of a mile in length, and half a mile over. The water appeared as black as ink, but in a glass it was clear as other water, and bright in running down. It tasted sweet and good. At one end, it runs over its rocky bank, and in several noisy cascades, falls down the face of the mountain to a deep bottom, where a river is formed,[Page 192]
that is seen for a considerable way, as it wanders along. The whole is a striking scene. The swarthy loch, the noisy descending streams, clumps of aged trees on the mountain's side, and the various shoars and vallies below, afford an uncommon view. It was a fine change of ground, to ascend from the beautiful lake, (encompassed with mountains, and adorned with trees) into which was poured from a gaping precipice, a torrent of streams; and see from the reverse of an opposite hill, an impetuous flood descending from the top to the finest points of view in the wildest glins below.35.88 What line I had with me, for experiments on waters and holes, I applied to this loch, to discover the depth, but with 300 yards of whipcord my lead could reach no ground, and from thence, and the blackness of the water, and the great issuing stream, I concluded, justly I think, that it went down to the great abyss, the vast treasury of waters within the earth. Many such unfathomable lochs as this have I seen on the summits of mountains in various parts of the world, and from them, I suppose, the greatest part of that deluge of waters came that drowned the old world. This leads me to say something of the flood.
[Page 193]

36.89 Many books have been written in relation to this affair, and while some contend for the overflowing of the whole earth to a very great height of waters-and some for a partial deluge only-others will not allow there was any at all. The divine authority of Moses they disregard. For my part, I believe the flood was universal, and that all the high hills and mountains under the whole heaven, were covered. The cause was forty days heavy rain, and such an agitation of the abyss, by the finger of God, as not only broke up the great deep, to pour out water at many places, but forced it out of such bottomless lochs as this I am speaking of on the mountains top, and from various swallows in many places. This removes every objection from the case of the deluge, and gives water enough in the space of 150 days, or five months of 30 days each, to over-top the highest mountains by 15 cubits, the height designed. The abyss in strong commotion, or violent uproar, by a power divine, could shake the incumbent globe to pieces in a few minutes, and bury the whole ruins in the deep. To me, then, all the reasoning against the deluge, or for a partial flood, appear sad stuff. Were this one loch in Stanemore to pour out torrents of water, down every side, for five months, by a divine force on part of the abyss, as it might very easily by such means do, the inundation[Page 194]
would cover a great part of this land; and if from every loch of the kind on the summits of mountains, the waters in like manner, with the greatest violence, flowed from every side out of the abyss, and that exclusive of the heavy rains, an earthquake should open some parts of the ground to let more water out of the great collection, and the seas and oceans surpass their natural bounds, by the winds forcing them over the earth, then would a universal flood very soon prevail. There is water enough for the purpose, and as to the supernatural ascent of them, natural and supernatural are nothing at all different with respect to God. They are distinctions merely in our conceptions of things. Regularly to move the sun or earth; and to stop its motion for a day;-to make the waters that covered the whole earth at the creation, descend into the several receptacles prepared for them; and at the deluge, to make them ascend again to cover the whole earth, are the effect of one and the same Almighty Power; tho' we call one natural, and the other supernatural. The one is the effect of no greater power than the other. With respect to God, one is not more or less natural or supernatural than the other.90 But how the waters of the deluge were drawn off at the end of the five months, is another question among the learned. The[Page 195]
ingenious Keile, who writ against the two ingenious Theorists, says the thing is not at all accountable in any natural way: the draining off, and drying of the earth, of such a huge column of waters could only be effected by the power of God: natural causes both in decrease and the increase of the waters must have been vastly disproportionate to the effects; and to miracles they must be ascribed. -This, I think, is as far from the truth, as the Theorists ascribing both increase and decrease to natural causes. God was the performer to be sure in the flood and the going off, but he made use of natural causes in both, that is, of the things he had in the beginning created. The natural causes he is the author of were at hand, and with them he could do the work. The sun evaporated; the winds dried; and the waters no longer forced upwards from the abyss, subsided into the many swallows or swallow-holes, that are still to be seen in many places, on mountains and in vallies; those on the mountains being necessary to absorb that vast column of waters which rose 15 cubits above the highest hills.A swallow is such another opening in the ground as Eldine Hole in Derbyshire (16) 91 , and[Page 196]
in travelling from the Peak to the northern extremity of Northumberland, I have seen many such holes in the earth, both on the hills and in the vales. I have likewise met with them in other countries. By these swallows, a vast quantity of the waters to be sure went down to the great receptacle; all that was not exhaled, or licked up by the winds; or, except what might be left to encrease the former seas of the antediluvian world into those vast oceans which now encompasses the globe, and partly to form those vast lakes that are in several parts of the World. These things easily account for the removal of that vast mass of waters which covered the earth, and was in a mighty column above the highest hills. Every difficulty disappears before evaporation, the drying winds, the swallows, and perhaps, the turning seas into oceans: but the three first things now[Page 197]
named were sufficient, and the gentlemen who have reasoned so ingeniously against one another about the removal of the waters, might have saved themselves a deal of trouble, if they had reduced the operation to three simple things, under the direction of the First Cause. The swallows especially must do great work in the case, if we take into their number not only very many open gulphs or chasms, the depth of which no line or sound can reach; but likewise the communications of very many parts of the sea, and of many great unfathomable lochs, with the abyss. These absorbers could easily receive what had before come out of them. The sun by evaporation, with the wind, might take away what was raised. There is nothing hard then in conceiving how the waters of the deluge were brought away.But as to the lake I have mentioned, into which a rapid flood poured from the bowels of the mountain, what became of this water the reader may inquire? To be sure, as it did not run off in any streams, nor make the lake rise in the least degree, there must have been a communication in some parts of its bottom, between the water of it and the abyss. As the loch on the top of the mountain I have described had no feeders, yet emitted streams, and therefore must be supported by the abyss; so this lake, with so powerful a feeder, not running over, or[Page 198]
emitting water any way, must discharge itself in the abyss below. The case of it must be the same as that of the Caspian sea. Into this sea many rivers pour, and one in particular, the Volga I mean, that is more than sufficient, in the quantity of water it turns out in a year, to drown the whole world. Yet the Caspian remains in one state, and does not overflow its banks, excepting, as before observed, sometimes, in the space of 16 years. It must by passages communicate with the great deep. It refunds the rivers into the great abyss. The case of the Mediterranean sea is the same; for, tho' a strong current from the Atlantic continually sits through the Strait of Gibraltar, yet these waters do not make it overflow the country round it, and of consequence, they must be carried off by a subterranean passage, or passages, to the abyss.37.92 93 From the lake I proceeded the next morning, June 14, 1725, toward the northeast end of Westmorland, having passed the night in a sound sleep under the trees by the water side, but was forced by the precipices, to shape my course from four in the morning till eight, to the north-west, and then the road turned east-north-east, till I came to a great glin, where a river made a rumbling noise over rocks and inequalities of many kinds, and formed a very wild wonderful scene. The river[Page 199]
was broad and deep, and on an easy descent to it, was an assemblage of stones, that ran in length about 100 feet, in breadth 30 feet, and somewhat resembling the giant's causeway, in the county of Antrim, and province of Ulster in Ireland; nine miles north east from the pretty town of Colerain. The giants causeway, reader, is a prodigious pile of rocks, 80 feet broad, 20 feet above the rest of the strand, and that run from the bottom of a high hill above 200 yards into the ocean.The assemblage of stones I am speaking of are columns with several corners, that rise three yards above the ground, and are joined as if done by art; the points being convex and concave, and thereby lying one in another. These columns have five and six sides, a few of them seven; and a number of them nicely and exactly placed together make one large pillar from one foot to two in diameter. They are so nicely joined, that altho' they have five and six sides, as I before said, yet their contexture is so adapted, as to leave no vacuity between them; the prominent angles of one pillar fitting, and falling exactly into the hollows left them between two others, and the plain sides exactly answer to one another; so that those hexagons and pentagons of columnar marble appear as if finished by the hands of the most masterly[Page 200]
workmen. All the pillars stood exactly perpendicular to the plane of the horizon.Doctor Foley, in the philosophical transactions, N°. 212, speaking of the giants causeway, seems to think these wonderful pillars are composed of the common sort of craggy rock by the sea side: and the authors of the complete system of geography are of opinion, they resemble the lapis Basaltes; but some think they are a sort of marble. Now the truth is, the Basaltes of the antients is a very elegant and beautiful marble of a fine deep glossy black, like high polished steel, and is always found erect in the form of regular angular columns, composed of a number of joints, fitted together, and making pillars: so that where such pillars are seen, they are undoubtedly the columnar marble or touchstone of the antients. Dr. Hill, in his history of fossils, gives a good account of the nature of this body, and mentions several places it is to be found in; but seems not to have heard there was any of it among the northern mountains of our country.This marble is one of the noblest productions of nature, and of all the fossil kingdom, the most astonishing body. If art is requisite for the formation of many things we see daily done with elegance and beauty; then certainly, mind itself, even the supreme mind, must have caused[Page 201]
such effects as these astonishing marble pillars; which lie in vast compound perpendicular columns at great depths in the earth, (none in beds of strata, like the other marbles), and rise in such beautiful joints and angles, well fitted together more than six and thirty foot above ground in some places. No other way could those wonderful productions have come into being, but by that intelligent, active power, who speaks intelligibly to every nation by his works. To talk as some people do, that necessity, which destroys the very idea of intelligent and designing activity-or chance, which is an utter absurdity-or the sea, according to Telliamed, generated and formed this genus of marble, and so wonderfully distinguished it from all the other marmora; by making it into pentagon, hexagon, and septagon columns, and rendering the points of the columns convex and concave, and so amazingly joining them together, that the prominent angles of one pillar fall exactly into the hollow left between two others, and the plain sides exactly answer to one another, as before observed, while all of them stand up perpendicular, contrary to the quality of all other marbles, and some lie in beds of strata -To talk I say of the sea, a chance, a necessity, doing this, or any thing of so wonderful a kind, is to produce schemes founded in ignorance, and eversive of true knowledge,[Page 202]
instead of giving a rational, intelligible account of the formation of the world, its order and appearances. In this wonderful production, a due attention perceives infinite art and power. Did we want that variety of things which employ the consideration of rational men, and force the tongues of thinking men to acknowledge creating power, this marble alone would be sufficient to demonstrate equal power directed by infinite wisdom.38.94 Another extraordinary thing I saw in a valley not far from that where the Basaltes stands. It is a boisterous burning spring. It rises with great noise and vibration, and gushes out with a force sufficient to turn many mills. The water is clear and cold, but to the taste unpleasant, being something like a bad egg. I judged from the nature of its motion, that the water would take fire, and having lit my torch, soon put it in a flame. The fire was fierce, and the water ran down the vale in a blaze. It was a river of fire for a considerable way, till it sunk under ground among some rocks, and thereby disappeared. After it had burnt some time, I took some boughs from a tree, and tying them together, beat the surface of the well for a few minutes, and the burning ceased. The water was not hot, as one might expect, but cold as the coldest spring could be. There are a great number of such springs in[Page 203]
the world, but this is the largest I have read of, or seen. It differs from that of Broseley in Shropshire, within six miles of Bridgenorth, in this respect, that Broseley well will not continue to burn for any time, unless the air be kept from it; to which purpose they have enclosed it in an iron cistern with a cover to it; and to experiment the boiling a piece of meat by the fire of this spring, they clap the pot close down when they cover is taken up, and then it burns as long as they will; making the largest joint of meat fit to eat in half the time the strongest culinary fire could do the work. As to the medicinal virtues of the spring, in the mountains, I can only say, that as it has a copious sulphur, and from thence flames like spirit of wine, it is probable it might be as effectual in communicating sanity in various cases, as the famous burning spring is in the palatinate of of Cracow of the lesser Poland, mention'd in the Leipsic acts, An. 1684. p. 326. And as to the extinguishing this fire by beating it with twigs, it must to be sure be for the reason given by Mr. Denis, that as the inflammability of such springs is to be ascribed to sulphur, and to its exhalations bursting out of the water; so this floating flame, which is too subtle to heat the water, is stifled, by involving these spirits in the aqueous particles, by brushing the surface with brooms.Conradus tells us, concerning the Polish[Page 204]
spring, that at one time, when it was kindled by lightning, the people neglected to put it out, and the stream proceeded on fire for almost three years, and reduced all the neighbouring wood to ashes. It is really a wonderful sight to see such a river of fire, and adorable must be that power, who has caused such things. To say that matter and motion circumscribe and regulate such powers, is idle to the last degree. It is an inversion of reason. The very existence of the water and sulphur of this spring, must be by the power of the Creator constantly put forth upon it, which causes the parts to be what we call such things; and the motion of both must be an impression; for motion is not essential to matter. Nothing else could produce them, and a cause there must be equal to the various and wonderful effects of both, a cause that is infinite, wise, and powerful. The Deity is every where present, and every where active. His power is indesinently working, gives existence to the various creatures, and produces the most noble phænomena in nature. All we see, all we feel, fire and water, the universal variety of inanimate and animate creatures, are only the effects of his creating power constantly repeated. The existence of the whole world is a continual new creation; and therefore it becomes the bounden duty of all rational creatures, to worship this Almighty Power, as well for his works of[Page 205]
creation, as for the ways of his providence. Great and wonderful are thy works, O Lord God Almighty: and just and righteous are thy ways, O King of saints: who would not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name, because thou only art holy.39.95 From the burning fountain we proceeded for half an hour in the same valley right onwards, and then turned to the left in a course to the west, for about a mile, which brought us to the bottom of a steep mountain, we must ascend, or go no farther. It was hard to get the horses over this, and no less difficult to descend with them to a deep bottom on the other side of the hill: but with great hazard to ourselves and the beasts, we came down in safety. On the top of this mountain I saw another large loch that was black as ink in appearance, tho' bright when taken up in a glass; which, (as before observed) must be owing I suppose to its top communicating with the abyss below; and in the bottom we descended to, there was a swallow larger than the one I saw before. I could make no discovery as to its depth, either by line or sound; nor did my lead touch any water. On the sloping way from the first chasm in day to the gulph, were several lateral chambers, that descended one yard in six; but tho' the bottom was hard, the horrors of the places hindered me from going far. I went to the[Page 206]
end of the first, which was 67 yards, and having looked into the second, to which a narrow short pass leads the inquirer, I made what haste I could back; for the opening discovers a space so vast, dismal, and frightful, that it strikes one to the heart. The bottom, as far as my light could enable me to distinguish, was a continuance of stone; but neither top nor sides were to be seen. It is a horrible place.40.96 Leaving this bottom, we mounted another very high and dangerous hill, and from the top of it descended into twenty acres of as rich and beautiful ground as my eyes had ever seen. It was covered with flowers and aromatic herbs; and had, in the center of it, a little grove of beautiful trees; among which were fruits of several kinds. A flowing spring of the purest water was in the middle of this sweet little wood, and ran in pretty windings over the ground. It refreshed and adorned the field, and it was beautiful to see the deer from the hills, and the goats come down from the cliffs, to drink at these streams. The whole was surrounded with precipices that ascended above the clouds, and through one of these rocky mountains there was an opening that had a stupendous appearance.It was a vast amazing arch, that had some resemblance of the gothic isle of a large cathedral church, and terminated in a view[Page 207]
of rocks hanging over rocks in a manner frightful to behold. It measured an hundred yards in length, 40 in breadth, and I judged it to be fifty yards high. The pending rocks in view inclosed a space of four acres, as it appeared to me, and the bottom was so very deep that it looked like night below. What line I had could not reach it, nor could I make any thing of the depth by sound. It seemed to me to be a vast swallow that went down to the abyss. The whole was a scene that harrowed the soul with horror.41.97 By the spring in the little grove I have mentioned, I sat down at 8 in the morning, to breakfast on something that one of my squires produced from his store, while the other was looking for a passage or way onwards, between those vast precipices that surrounded us. Two hours he wasted in an enquiry, and then returned, to let me know there was no passage that he could find: the enclosed rocks were one continued chain of unpassable mountains. Here then I thought was my ne plus ultra. As the man affirmed there was no getting beyond the vast inclosing cliffs that walled in this charming spot of earth, I imagined for some time, that I must of necessity return, and give over all thoughts of getting to the borders of Cumberland or Bishoprick that way. It seemed impossible to[Page 208]
proceed, and that was no small trouble to my mind. It was a great journey round, and if I did ride it, I knew not where to turn in on the confines of the country my friend lived on; for I had lost his directions, and had only a small remembrance of his dwelling somewhere on the north edge of Westmoreland or Yorkshire, or on the adjoining borders of Cumberland, or the county of Durham. What to do I could not for some time tell: going back I did not at all like, and therefore, to avoid it if possible, resolved to pass the day in trying if I could find any way out, without climbing the mountain again that I had lately come down. Round then I walked, once, and to no manner of purpose, for I did not see any kind of pass; but the second time, as I marched on observing the hill, I took notice of a large clump of great trees in an angle or deep corner, that seemed to stand very oddly, and in the mountain above them there appeared as I thought a distance or space that looked like an opening. I soon found it was so, and that at the back of this little wood, there lay a very narrow way, only broad enough for two horses a-breast: that it extended due west for more than a mile, and then west-north-west for a quarter of a mile, till it terminated in a plain that was several miles in circumference, and intirely surrounded with hills. This I discovered[Page 209]
in walking the pass by myself, 98 and then returned to bring the horses and men, through this amazing way. It was quite dark, mere night all along; and the bottom very bad. It was likewise very dangerous. It was evident from the ground, that stones had fallen from the tops of the hills; and should any descend from so vast a height on us, tho' even small ones, they would without all peradventure be immediate death.42.99 The plain we came into from the defile, was above a mile over to the opposite hills, and a-cross it was a walk of aged oaks, that seemed, in such a place, as the avenue that leads to the fairy castle of wishes. If such beings there are, as Dr. Fowler, bishop of Glocester, hath in one of his books affirmed, then here, I said, in this fine romantic region, where all the charms of the field, the forest, the water, and the mountains, are united, may be their favorite mansion, and perhaps they will admit me into their fairy castle: then commences their friendship, and when they have all breathed on me, it is but wishing for the future, and the completion of every desire is granted the moment it is formed. Would not this be compleat happiness? what do you say, reflexion?No, (reflexion answered, as we rid up this avenue). Imagination may form fine pictures[Page 210]
of felicity from an indulgence in every wish; 100 but, so blind are mankind to their own real happiness, that it is oftner to the gratification than to the disappointment of their wishes that all their misery is owing. We often choose what is not consonant to the welfare of our nature, and strive to avoid those incidents which are fated in the order of incontrolable events for our good. Frequently do we labour to secure the things that debase us into slaves, and overwhelm us with calamity; but seldom do we desire, rarely do we strive to obtain those objects, and acquire that station, which are most likely to render humanity as perfect as it can be in this world, rational and godlike, and thereby crown our lives with true happiness. Many a man has pursued a Venus, an estate, an honour, with much toil and wonderful activity, and when possessed of the fancyed blessing, have been made very miserable mortals. The wished for beauty has often made even the husband wretched. An aching scar is often covered with the laurel: and in respect of envied great fortunes, gaudy is the thing without, and within very often is mere bitterness. The wisdom is, as to this world, not to get from the fairies a power of enjoying all that fancy may desire, if that was possible; but, to act well and wisely, in the most reasonable, lovely, and fair manner, and propose[Page 211]
nothing of ourselves, 101 but with a reserve that supreme wisdom permits it; welcoming every event with chearfulness and magnanimity, as best upon the whole, because ordained of infinite reason; and acquiescing in every obstruction, as ultimately reservable to divine providence. This (continued reflexion), in respect of this life, were there no other, is preferable to the castle of wishes, if we could find it at the end of this avenue (17) 102 .But if another life is taken into the question, the argument grows stronger against a power of enjoying all we could wish for. - As we are accountable creatures, and are pouring fast out of time into eternity, religion undoubtedly ought to be the main business of mortals;-that religion, which is a living principle, spring, or root of actions[Page 212]
in the soul; wrought there by the hand of him that made us; and which requireth us to honour and fear God as the supreme Lord, to esteem him as the chief good; and to exercise and express that honour, that fear, and that esteem, by all the means, and in all the ways, which reason and revelation appoint for such exercise and expression; that we may gain the love of the Almighty, and obtain the established seat of happiness above: but such force hath the objects of sense upon the mind, that it is more than probable they would outweigh the distant hopes of religion, if wishing could bring in even a tenth part of what the vanity of man, and his senses would call for. It would be so far from being an advantage to mankind, if they could wish and have vast fortunes, all the pleasures, the pomps and honours of the world, that they would thereby be deprived of the rational joys of life, and be influenced to think no more of the excellency and beauty of religion, and the good consequences of serving God truly. They would not even divide themselves between this world and the other. The Idol Gods of this state would have all their service. The wish then should be for daily bread, and that the kingdom of God may come-his will be done in our souls. In these are comprized the greatest and most valuable blessings, and we are sure we can obtain[Page 213]
them, if we will add to asking an industry and prudence in acquiring, and take care by culture, to bring up the seeds of virtue and holiness. This is enough to make us as happy here as reason can desire. We have a sufficiency to go through this world to that other where we are to be stationed for ever, and against the accidents of the way, we have the supports which innocence and virtue to the good administer. Peace and tranquillity of mind here, and hopes full of comfort with respect to hereafter, are the ingredients of our happiness; a happiness the greatest! and we are certain that he, upon whose mercy and goodness we confess we exist, will, in regard to our confidence and trust, our faith and religion, when this fleeting scene is over, make us glorious and ever blessed in the kingdom he has prepared for those that rely on the Divine Goodness, and do their best to advance the state of true virtue in the world. Let us not regret, then, the want of a castle of wishes. Let us not have a desire of that wealth, dominion and splendor, which lives in contempt of the prophets, and riots in the heinous pleasures of irreligion.Let our great Master's Will be made the rule of all our actions, and let his interest be regarded, as our interest. Let us consult his honour, as our own honour; and having food and[Page 214]
raiment, be content, as we are hasting away with a never ceasing pace, to the realms of eternity and unmixed bliss. This is reason and light. This only deserves our care. There is nothing worth wishing for, but the happiness of God's presence in our hearts; and the more immediate communications of his love and favour in the regions of day.43.103 104 Thus did reflexion entertain me, as I rid up this grand shady walk, which looked like the avenue I had read of in the Tales of the Fairies, and brought me to a natural grotto, more beautiful than Ælian's description of Atalanta's, or that in Homer, where Calypsos lived. -It was a large cavern at the bottom of a marble mountain, and without, was covered round with ivy, that clung about some aged oaks, (on either side the entrance) that seemed coeval with the earth on which they grew. Abundance of large laurel trees, in clumps, adorned an extensive area before the door; and saffron, and hyacinths, and flowers of many colours, covered in confused spots the carpet green. The beautiful ground refreshed the sight, and purified the air: and to enhance the beauties of the spot, a clear and cold stream gushed from a neighbouring rock; which watered the trees and plants, and seemed to combat with the earth, whether of them most contributed to their growth and preservation. It was a[Page 215]
sweet rural scene. For charms and solitude the place was equally to be admired.The inside of this grotto was a beautiful green marble, extremely bright, and even approaching to the appearance of the emerald. It was thick set with shells, and those not small ones, but some of the largest and finest kinds: many of them seemed, as it were, squeezed together by the marble, so as to shew the edges only; but more were to be seen at large, and filled with the purest spar. The whole had a fine effect, and as the cave had been divided by art into six fine apartments, and had doors and chimnies most ingeniously contrived, both the mansion and its situation charmed me in a high degree. It was a beautiful habitation indeed. On either side of it were many cottages, pretty and clean, and as sheep were feeding on the field, some cows grazing, and various kinds of tame fowl before the doors, I concluded it was an inhabited place, before I saw any one.44.105 The first human being I beheld, was an old woman, who appeared at the grotto door, and I requested her to inform me, who lived in this delightful place;-and which was my best way to Cumberland or Bishoprick? Sir, (replied the good old woman) you are welcome to Burcott-Lodge. Women only are the inhabitants of this spot: and over the[Page 216]
hills before you, you must go, to get to the countries you mention. We are an hundred souls in all that live here, and our mistress, superior and head, is a young woman. Her name is Azora. Yonder she comes, goodness itself, and as it is now seven in the evening, too late to proceed any farther in this part of the world, you had better walk up to her, and pay her your respects. Great was my surprize at what I heard. A little female republic among those hills was news indeed: and when I came near Azora, my astonishment encreased.She was attended by ten young women, straight, clean, handsome girls, and surpassed them in tallness. 106 Her countenance was masculine, but not austere: her fine blue eyes discovered an excellence of temper, while they shewed the penetration of her mind. Her hair was brown, bright and charming; and nature had stamped upon her cheeks a colour, that exceeded the most beautiful red of the finest flower. It was continually as the maiden blush of a modest innocence. She was drest in a fine woollen stuff, made in the manner shepherdesses are painted, and on her head had a band or fillet like what the ladies now wear, with a bunch of artificial flowers in her hair. She had a very small straw hat on. -In her hand, she held a long and[Page 217]
pretty crook: and as her coats were short, her feet were seen, in black silk shoes, and the finest white stockings, and appeared vastly pretty. She struck me greatly. She was a charming, and uncommon figure. When I came up to Azora, I could hardly forbear addressing her, as the son of Ulysses did the supernal,-O vous, qui que vous soiez, mortelle ou deesse (quoiqu'a vous voir on ne puisse vous prendre que pour une divinité) seriez-vóus insensible au malheur d'un fils, qui -Whoever you are, a mortal or a goddess, tho' sure your aspect speaks you all divine, can you, unmoved, behold a hapless son, by fate expelled, and urged by unrelenting rage, to wander thro' the world, exposed to winds and seas, and all the strokes of adverse fortune, till he arrived in this land of felicity and peace? -But on better thoughts, I only said, I am your most humble servant, madam, and told her I believed I had lost my way, and knew not where to go;-To which she replied, you are welcome, sir, to our hamlet, and to the best entertainment it affords: only tell me, she added with a smile, what could induce you to travel this unbeaten road-and how did you pass the precipices and rivers you must have met with in the way? -Curiosity, madam, (I answered) was one cause; that I might see a country[Page 218]
no traveller had been in; and my next inducement, to find a valuable friend; who lives somewhere upon the northern border of this county, or Yorkshire, or on the adjoining limits of Cumberland or Durham; but on which I know not; and as I came from Brugh under Stanemore, I judged it the shortest way by a great many miles, and the likeliest to succeed in my enquiry after my friend:-then as to hills and waters, many dangerous ones I have gone over, and with great toil and fatigue have got thus far. - This (Azora said) is a rational account of your journey, and as there are many difficulties still before you, you are welcome to rest with us till you are refreshed, and able to proceed.By this time, we reached the grotto door, and upon entring the first apartment, I saw another lady, drest in the same manner, and seemed to be of the same age, that is, about six and twenty, as I was told. This was Azora's companion and friend. She was a very pretty woman, tho' inferior to Azora in charms: but her mind was equally luminous and good. Neither she nor Azora were learned women, that is, they understood no other language than the English tongue, and in that they had but a small collection of the best books; but those few they had read[Page 219]
well, and they had capacities to think. In reason, philosophy, and mathematicks, they were excellent, and in the most agreeable manner, discovered in conversation the finest conceptions of the most excellent things. Azora, of the two, was by much the best speaker. Her voice was delightful, and her pronunciation just; strong, clear, and various. With unspeakable pleasure did I listen to her, during three days that I happily passed with her and her companion, and received from both many valuable informations. I thought I understood algebra very well, but I was their inferior, and they instructed me; and on the fundamental points of religion, they not only out-talked me, but out-reasoned me. It is very strange, I confess. It is very true, however.Azora, in particular, had an amazing collection of the most rational philosophical ideas, and she delivered them in the most pleasing dress, with as much ease as she breathed. She asked me, after I had feasted on an excellent supper, how religion went on in the world; and what was the condition of that which came from supernatural communication, as she phrased it? and when I told her, that our excellent divines did all that was possible for men to do, to turn the world from superstition of every kind to that[Page 220]
express revelation which restores the dictates of uncorrupted reason to their force and authority; which teaches the knowledge of one supreme Spirit or God, and the nature of that worship which is due to a Being not confined to, or dependent upon particular places, or circumstances; but always and every where present with us: she answered, that such clergymen are glorious, and cannot be enough admired; and great is the unreasonableness of the men who opposed them, and forced them into the field of disputation, from their holy labour of instructing the people in penitential piety and sanctification: I mean the infidels and the bigots.What can be more unjust and impious, (Azora continued) than for men to declame against a revelation which displays the paternal regard of God for his creatures, by doing more than was strictly necessary for their happiness, as they had his original law of reason before he gave them the gospel; and which enables us to extend our knowledge even as to those things which we are by nature capable of knowing; which awakens us to duty, and advises us how to walk in the ways of prudence and safety. To reject such an extraordinary method of saving us, is senseless and culpable indeed. Surely, when superstition and enthusiasm has led mankind into errors, we ought to adore the divine goodness[Page 221]
for recommunicating a knowledge of true religion; of duty in this life, and of what we are to expect in that which is to come. We can never be thankful enough for a revelation, that has a tendency to promote the happiness of mankind both here and hereafter. The opposition, in my opinion, is without excuse; as the external evidence of history, miracles, and prophecy for the gospel, is incontestably strong, when fairly examined; must appear with force to a modest, candid, impartial inquirer; and as the internal evidence for the sacred letters, their usefulness and excellence, must be obvious to every attentive capacity, that delights in the pursuit of religion and virtue. Truth and candor, then, those infidels are strangers to. They are not fair reasoners. They are haughty, over-bearing declaimers.107 Nor can I think much better (Azora said) of those great and reverend men, who preach and write to prove the weakness of human reason, and that the prime law of our creation, the law of nature, is imperfect, insufficient, and obscure; and therefore, supernatural communication was absolutely necessary; who add to this, things inconceivable and contradictory, and insist upon our believing articles too hard for rational beings. This is misrepresenting rationals, if we believe the scriptures, and is so far from being of service to[Page 222]
the cause of christianity, (as in charity we must suppose those great men by such writing and preaching do intend) that it does, on the contrary, very greatly hurt reveled religion. It is to such wrong defences of revelation that antichristian deism owes its chief strength. Our holy religion wants not any real evidence that can be desired by the modest, candid, and impartial; but if great and learned men will deny the perfection of the primary law of God, and substitute in the place of recommunicated nature, an invented gospel, that swells with useless mysteries, and hard doctrines; great damage must fall upon the true gospel. An unintelligible religion is no religion. It can be of no concern, with regard to rational creatures; and strong minds will laugh at its pieties.108 But exclusive of invented mysteries, (I said) which are to be sure sad stuff in the works of those great men, and deplorably corrupt the simplicity of the gospel, to me it is not so plane, that mankind could by reason acquire just and adequate ideas of the existence and nature of the supreme Being, or know that they had immortal souls, and would expose themselves to eternal unavoidable misery in a future state, in proportion to the demerit of their thoughts and actions in this world; but might secure everlasting felicity by worshipping one supreme, universal, omnipotent,[Page 223]
eternal, omnipresent, and intelligent Spirit, and doing all the good we have an opportunity and power to do in this life. I question if reason can make us clear and certain on these articles. The reason of the bulk of mankind cannot do it, I think. Therefore, the gospel was absolutely necessary for the salvation of men.109 Azora to this replied, that faith in Christ, and all his own institutions, were of high value indeed; and beautiful his religion appears, when it is fairly represented, as an institution that has no other end than morality, the most noble end, and the most worthy of God; and that declares the practice of all the moral offices to be superior to any inward accomplishment, or outward christian institution: but she could not allow, that christianity was absolutely necessary; for the common reason of men, without launching out into the unfathomable ocean of metaphysical subtilties, appears upon tryal to be able to discover the fundamental points of religion; and from the things that are made, from our moral capacities and powers, and from our relations to one another, to know the supreme Being, his attributes and perfections, and that we are accountable to our great Creator.If men will think, they must perceive (without the reason of a Newton or Clarke) the existence of a spiritual influence in all the[Page 224]
parts of inanimated matter, and the existence of their own spirits or souls. To which ever part of matter we look, we see a spirit employed. An influencing Being, endued with the faculties of perception, activity, and volition, is plane. The accidental qualities of matter, called attraction, repulsion, and communication of motion, evince that material and vegetable nature, and all the parts of inanimated matter, are actuated by one supreme and universal spirit: I say One Spirit, because it is evident from a sameness of volition, that is, from one and the same faculty of volition, manifest throughout all nature, that there are not several distinct, independent spirits. In attraction, repulsion, and communication of motion, there appears no different faculty of volition, but a different exercise of the same faculty of volition; which, for wise reasons, makes some parts of matter cohere strongly, as stone and metal,-some weakly, as earth, etc; some repel, while others attract; some elastic, and others non-elastic. In all these cases, one spirit only is the actor: that Being who holds all perfection in himself, and by an absolute command over all parts of matter, forms and manages it as his wisdom sees best;-just as his adorable providence governs us, and disposes of us, by such laws as reason, (consulting the good of the whole society) declares it to be best[Page 225]
for us to obey: best, most surely, as it is the glory of the Almighty to be constantly and without any deviation, governed by the eternal and immutable laws of good and right, just and equal. All is the operation of one and the same universal spirit. Identity is visible. The various kinds of attraction, repulsion, etc. only shew the unlimited power of the Deity, in actuating matter as his established rules require. Were several arbitrary, supreme spirits to act over matter, the consequence would be a breach of regularity, uniformity, and constancy, in the laws of nature, and that confusion would appear instead of beauty and order.110 Thus common reason confesses that there is one infinite universal, supreme spirit, who actuates and governs the universe; and from the heavens, the earth, and ourselves, we are as certain that there is a Creator and Lord of all the worlds, who directs every atom of it, and animates every material form, as we are of any thing demonstrated to us. And as he is not only the Creator but the Manager and Preserver of every being, there can be no power equal to him. He must be omnipotent. He must likewise be eternal and omnipresent; for there was no superior power to receive existence from, nor is there a superior power to confine it. As to his infinite intelligence, his being the Author[Page 226]
and Preserver of all things demonstrates it.In respect of the human soul (Azora continued) it is impossible for perception to proceed from the body, or from any motion or modification of parts of the body; and therefore, there must be a mind in which our ideas must be produced and exist. If the ideas of sensation may be supposed to be occasioned by the different motions of the constituent parts of the brain, yet they cannot be those motions. The motions can only enable a spiritual percipient to note them, remember them, etc: and as to reflection, the other part of the perceptive faculty, attention, and contemplation, it is not possible they can proceed from the different motions into which the parts of the brain are put; because they are employed solely about perceptions which were only in the mind. The case is the same as to many other qualities or faculties;-in the designing quality, the inventing quality, the judging quality, the reasoning quality, the compounding quality, the abstracting quality, the discerning quality, the recollective quality, the retentive quality, the freedom of will, the faculty of volition, and especially the foreseeing faculty: these cannot be the faculties of matter. Such qualities must exist ultimately and solely in mind. Can foresight, for example, be the work of matter, when it is employed about[Page 227]
things and actions which have not yet happened, and for that reason cannot be the objects of the senses? No surely. It must be the spiritual part of the compound that acts upon the occasion: in all the intelligent faculties which we comprehend under the complex idea of understanding, spirit only can be the performer.111 There is a soul or mind then in man, and that it is immortal and accountable, is as evident as that the retentive faculty, that is, retaining ideas received by reflection, does not pertain to body, but is a natural quality of the soul only, and does not proceed from its union with the body: for, as perception and retention prove the human mind to be a distinct being, and that it has qualities which cannot proceed from body, therefore it must still continue a Spirit, unless annihilated by its Creator, and must, after its separation, be endued with the qualities which are the faculties of soul only. The reason is plain. These qualities cannot be destroyed without a cause, but separation is no cause, as the quality or qualities did not proceed from, or depend on union, therefore the soul is immortal, unless we suppose what cannot be supposed, that its Creator puts an end to its being. We must know, after death, that we exist. We must remember a past existence,[Page 228]
and call to mind every idea we had formed in this life by reflection.112 As to our being accountable hereafter for the deeds we have done in this first state of existence, this can admit of no speculation; for as we have received from our Creator the eternal law of reason, which enables us to distinguish right and wrong, and to govern the inferior powers and passions, appetites and senses, if we please;-as we are endued with an understanding which can acquire large moral dominion, and may, if we oppose not, sit as queen upon the throne over the whole corporeal system; since the noble faculty of reason was given to rectify the soul, and purify it from earthly affections; to elevate it above the objects of sense, to purge it from pride and vanity, selfishness and hypocrisy, and render it just, pious and good; -of consequence, God has a right to call us to account for our conduct in this first state, and will reward or punish, in a most extraordinary manner; as the principles and actions of man have been righteous; or, his life and character stained by unjust dispositions and filthy deeds. This is plain to common reason. Every understanding must see this, how wrong soever they wilfully act. As God by his nature must abhor iniquity, and love what is honest, pure, and good; he must reward the piety and worthy behaviour[Page 229]
of those, who act according to reason in this life, and with views beyond the bounds of time, endeavour to proceed each day to more exalted ideas of virtue: but, the mortals who deviate from rectitude and goodness, and wilfully live workers of iniquity, must expect that God, the Father of spirits, the Lover of truth, and the patron of righteousness and virtue, will proportion future punishments to present vices, and banish them to the regions of eternal darkness. From the natural lights of our understanding we have the highest reason to conclude this will be the case. The truths are as evident to a reflection, as that this world, and we who inhabit it, could not have had eternal existence, nor be first formed by any natural cause; but must have been originally produced, as we are now constantly preserved, by the supreme and universal Spirit. This is the excellent law of reason or nature. There is a light sufficient in every human breast, to conduct the soul to perfect day, if men will follow it right onwards, and not turn into the paths that lead to the dark night of hell.113 Azora's religious notions amazed me, and the more, as they were uttered with a fluency and ease beyond any thing I had ever heard before. In the softest, sweetest voice, she expressed herself, and without the least appearance of labour, her ideas seemed to flow[Page 230]
from a vast fountain. She was a master indeed in the doctrine of ideas. Her notion of them and their formation was just as possible; and in a few minutes she settled every thing relating to them. Her ideas of activity and passivity afforded me much instruction, as did her notions of space, matter, and spirit: and what is still more extraordinary, she had a fine conception of an electrical fluid, which is thought to be a discovery made very lately, and made use of it to prove, not that it is the ultimate cause of effects, but that every thing is caused and directed by an immaterial spirit. An immaterial spirit was her favorite article, and it was to me a fine entertainment to hear her on that subject; from the one supreme Spirit down to the spirit of brute animals. ---But to conclude our conversation on religion; I observed to Azora, that if things were so, and the law of reason was so perfect and sufficient, then I could not see that there was any want at all of the religion of favor, since that of nature was enough to confirm us in rectitude and holiness, if we would obey its directions; and to shew us the way to the mansions of angels. Why the law of grace at so great an expence-if the rule of reason can make us good here, and for ever happy hereafter?
[Page 231]
114 Azora replied, that she had before answered this question by observing, that excellent as the primary law of the creation was, yet, revelation was of the greatest use, as it enables us to extend our knowledge even as to the things which we are by nature capable of knowing; and as it restored to the world the law of reason, that is, true religion, when superstition and enthusiasm had established false religion. This renders christianity glorious were there nothing more to be said for it: But this is not all we can say.115 The best of mortals are weak, and the most of them are so fully employed about things temporal, that it is impossible so much good should proceed from mere human reason as from a plain easy gospel, that delineates duty in the most intelligible manner, and contains the absolute command of the great God, to renounce vicious habits, impure desires, worldly tempers, and frame our souls to purity, sincerity, and devotion; as the only means that can secure his felicitating presence, and gain us admission to the delightful seats of separate souls made perfect. In this the gospel is far preferable to reason.116 Beside, as wilful disobedience strikes at the being and government of God, and devotedness to the Lord of all the worlds, in trust and resignation, is the perfection of[Page 232]
religion, the example of the Son of God in his humiliation, his cross, his death, make an instance of resignation so consummate and instructive, that we not only learn from it what reason cannot half so well instruct us in; I mean the amiableness of virtue, the excellency of holiness, and the merit of absolute and unreserved obedience; but, we are roused to an imitation of this grand character; both on account of its beauty, and the promise of our sitting down with Christ in his throne, if, according to our measure, we work all righteousness, and overcome our present temptations and trials, even as he also overcame, and is set down with his Father in his throne. Reason is nothing compared to this. The gospel-dispensation by this means is fitted to render us virtuous, holy, and thoroughly good, in a method the law of nature could never do.117 And more than this; when the God of heaven saw his creatures and children every where going wrong, without any help amongst themselves, and therefore sent his Son to set them right; to set before them the unchangeable rule of everlasting righteousness in its original purity and perfection, and not only explain and enforce it by the most powerful considerations, but apply the commands of supreme reason to the government[Page 233]
of the thoughts and passions of the heart; that duty and virtue in the principle and habit of universal rectitude towards both God and man, might be the practice of all the earth, and mankind become a people holy to the Lord; He, the Universal Father, the better to effect this blessed purpose, added two things to religion, which have a power that reason wants, to make us conform to God, and the eternal laws of righteousness, in principle, temper and life. One is, Christ's appearing to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself, by his becoming a sin-offering. The other is the assistance of the spirit of God. The oblation of the Son, and the grace of the Father, have effects in religion, in changing and sanctifying, that reason is an utter stranger to.118 The sum of the whole is, the gospel, that word of truth and power, enters the hearts, and breaks the power of sin in the soul. The holy life of Christ sets us an example, that we should walk in his steps, and obey the will of the infinitely wise Creator; that, like him, we should accord by obedience with the harmony of God's moral government, and rather die than break or obstruct it by any wilful sin. And by his being a sin-offering, he not only put an end to all sin-offerings, (which both Jews and Gentiles were[Page 234]
wont to offer;) (19) 119 but, by his being the most precious one in the universe, shewed God's great displeasure against sin, and in his obedience to the Father, even unto death, that we ought to cease from evil, and by a righteous obedience render ourselves worthy of God the Father's love. That we may do so, we have the promise of the Spirit to enable us to turn from sin and Satan to the living God, that by the acting principle of sanctification, wrought within us by the hand of him that made us, (without the least force on our will,) we may perfect our souls in purity and holiness, exercise acts of love and benevolence, and worship the one true God in and through the one true Mediator. -Reason alone, excellent as it is, cannot produce any thing like this.The religion of favour in these respects surpasses the law of nature. By the first law of the creation, reason, we may acquire that[Page 235]
righteousness, which is an habitual rectitude of soul, and right actions flowing from it: but sanctification, that influencing principle, which adds holiness to righteousness, belongs, as I take it, to the law of grace. It is given to those who ask it, not for the sake of, but through Christ.120 All this (I answered) is just and fine, and I have only to request, for my farther instruction, that you will be pleased, madam, to explain yourself a little more on the articles of a sin-offering and grace; for I have always thought there was a darkness sat upon these parts of reveled religion, and have often wished for what I have not yet found, a head capable of giving me intire satisfaction on those points: but from what I have heard you say, I must now suppose that all my doubts, relative to the two subjects, you have the power to remove. -My power (Azora returned) is no more than a plain understanding, that in this still and peaceful region, has been at liberty to think, without being corrupted by sophistry, school-nonsense, or authority; and, as to giving satisfaction on the heads you mention, or any other, it is not what I pretend to: but my opinion you shall have since you ask it; and in the following manner Azora proceeded.121 As to our Lord's becoming a sin-offering, I conceive, in the first place, that God ordained[Page 236]
it, because he saw it needful, and necessary to answer many and great ends. It must be right, and what in the reason and nature of things ought to be, though we were not able to comprehend the reasons that made it needful. It must have been the properest way to make up the breach between heaven and earth, since infinite wisdom appointed it.In the next place, as the death of this great person not only gave the highest attestation to the truth of his doctrine, and confirmed every word he had preached; to the encouragement of sinners to repent, and the great consolation of saints; but has afforded us such a noble pattern of obedience, as must have an influence on intelligent beings, and excite them to practise obedience to all the commands of God, and perfect resignation to his will in every case; which are some excellent reasons for Christ's dying; so did Almighty God make this farther use of it, that he appointed the blood of Christ (which was shed to produce the essence of sanctification in the soul, to wit, devotedness, trust, and resignation to the Almighty Father of the universe) to be the blood of a new covenant, shed for many for the remission of sins. This seems to me to take in the whole case. Christ by obedience to the death (which happened in the natural course of things) is held out to the[Page 237]
world a pattern of self-sacrifice in the cause of truth and virtue---a sample of that perfect religion---not my will, but thine be done: the glorious gospel is thereby confirmed: and our redemption is effected by the blood of the Son of God. As Moses, the Mediator between God and Israel, repeated to the people the laws and judgments of God, and received their consent to the divine commands; entered this covenant in his book, offered sacrifices of praise and friendship, and then confirmed the covenant in the most solemn manner, by dividing the blood of the sacrifices into parts; one part of which he sprinkled on the altar, to ratify God's part of the covenant: and with the other part sprinkled the people, that is, the twelve princes, the heads, or the twelve pillars, which represented the twelve tribes, and then awfully cried out with a strong voice---Behold the blood of the covenant Jehovah has made with you: so did the Lord Jesus Christ, the Mediator between God and all mankind, teach the people by his gospel to rectify their notions, to regulate their affections, to direct their worship; with the judgments that were to be the consequence of disobedience, the rewards prepared for those who obey; and then declared, in relation to his death, This is my blood of the new covenant. The blood I must shed on the cross will seal, ratify, and confirm[Page 238]
a pardoning covenant, and by virtue thereof, upon repentance and conversion, the world is washed clean through the blood of the Lamb. This, I think for myself, renders the thing very plain and easy. The death of the Son of God was taken into the plan of redemption, not to pacify God's anger; for God could be no otherwise pleased or delighted with the blood of his Son, than as his shedding it was an act of the highest obedience, and a noble pattern to all the rational creation; but his blood was made the seal of a pardoning and justifying covenant; and by the death of Christ, (the most powerful means to prevent sin, and to draw sinners to obey the commands of heaven,) God demonstrated his love and mercy to mankind. I fancy I am clear. In this view of the matter, I can see no difficulty in being justified freely by the grace of God, thro' the redemption which is in Christ Jesus. God is the sole original and fountain of redemption. The Son, and his gospel are the great instruments. Lo! I come to do thy will, O my God, the Son declares: and the Blood he shed, the better to bring the human race to wisdom, rectitude and happiness, is appointed by our merciful, good, and gracious Father, to be the seal and ratification of a new covenant. Moloch might want a cruel and bloody sacrifice to pacify him; but the Father of[Page 239]
the universe sent his Christ to deliver his commands, and made the death, which he foresaw would happen by his Son's delivering such commands to impious men, to be a covenant between Jehovah and the people, that Jesus should be considered as a propitiation for our sins, and his death be an eternal memorial of the Almighty's love, and abhorrence of iniquity. There can no objection lie against this. To me this appears the most rational and beautiful scheme that infinite wisdom could contrive. Most glorious and good is our God. Most happy may mortals be, if they please. The virtuous obedience of our Lord hath obtained from God a right and power to abolish death. His blood hath confirmed the covenant of grace, and his gospel hath brought life immortal into light.122 As to the influence of the spirit, (Azora continued) that there is such a living principle in the human soul, cannot I think be denied, if revelation is to be believed; but the mode of influencing is not perhaps to be explained otherwise than by saying, that our gracious and good Father makes now and then some friendly impressions upon our minds, and by representing in several lights the terrors and promises of the gospel, excites our hopes and fears. As I apprehend, we can go very little further. It is easy I think to prove from the scriptures, that as[Page 240]
the extraordinary assistance of the Holy Ghost was necessary for planting christianity at first; so is a supernatural assistance of the Holy Ghost, tho' not in so illustrious a manner, still necessary to enable us to perform the conditions of the gospel. Tho' God has recalled the more visible signs of his presence, yet to be sure he continues to influence some way or other. I cannot suppose the Holy Ghost has wholly withdrawn himself from the church. The renewing of the Holy Ghost (St. Peter says) was a promise made to them and to their children, and to those that were afar off, even as many as God should call; and as human nature has the same weakness and passions, and extravagancies of former ages, there is as much need of a divine assistance now as in the time of the apostles: nay more need, I think, at present, as miracles are ceased. There must be a weight of supernatural power to press within, as there are now no flashings from the sky, or extraordinary appearances without, to prove the certainty of our religion, and make us consider its promises, threatenings, and rules: but the way this supernatural principle acts, as before observed, is hard to determine, any more than what I have said, and instead of wasting our time in enquiries how the thing is done, our business is to render ourselves capable of so great a blessing, by not grieving[Page 241]
this holy spirit, lest he depart from us; and resolving with the psalmist, to walk with a perfect heart, and to set no wicked thing before our eyes. We must strive to improve religious thoughts: we must labour hard to obey the written rules: God will then give us the grace sufficient for us. To our considerable talent of natural power to do good, our Father will add the advantages of his his spirit. If we desire to be good, he will make us good in conjunction with our own application and pains; by a gradual process, and human methods. If nature gives her utmost actings, the author of nature will move, and direct and assist her where she is weak. Both the grace and the providence of God may be likened to a little spring concealed within a great machine: to the known given powers of the machine, the operations of it are ascribed, and all its events imputed; yet it is the small secreted spring that directs, draws, checks, and gives movement to every weight and wheel. The case cannot be exactly alike, as a compound of matter and spirit is different from a machine: but it may suggest I imagine some imperfect idea of the affair: a very imperfect one, I confess, for if we were thinking ever so long of the matter, grace after all would be what the apostle calls it, an unspeakable gift-A gift surmounting our apprehensions as well as[Page 242]
it does our merit. The theory of it may be perhaps too excellent for us, and our part is, not to determine how, but with honest hearts to pray, that a ray from heaven may open, and shine upon our understanding, clear it from prejudices and impostures, and render it teachable, considerative and firm; may inspire good thoughts, excite good purposes, and suggest wholesome counsels and expedients. This the divine power may easily do, without depriving us of free-will, or lessening our own moral agency. That power may extinguish an imagination we strive to get rid of: may remove an impediment we labour to be freed from: may foil a temptation we do our best to resist. If we do all we can, and implore the divine aid, there is no doubt but the Almighty may give his free creatures such powers and dispositions, as will carry them innocently and safely thro' the trial of this first state. On such conditions, God, the Father of spirits, the friend of men, the patron of righteousness and all virtue, will, without all peradventure, distribute his grace to every mortal in proportion to the measures of necessary duty.123 Here Azora ended, and I sat for some minutes after in great admiration. Her fancy furnished ideas so very fast, and speaking was so very easy to her, without one pang in[Page 243]
the delivery, or the least hesitation for hours, as she could, if she pleased, so long discourse; her judgment was so strong, and her words so proper and well placed, that she appeared to me a prodigy in speaking, and I could have listened to her with delight and amazement the whole night. But exactly at ten o'clock, the old woman I mentioned before, who first bid me welcome to Burcot Lodge, came into the chamber with candles, and Azora told me, that if I would follow Gladuse, 124 she would light me to bed. I did immediately, after wishing the ladies good night, and my guide brought me to her own cottage, which was next door to the grotto. She shewed me into a small clean room, neatly and prettily furnished, and there I found a good bed. Down I lay as soon as I could, being much fatigued, and as the sun was rising, got up again, to write what I could remember to have heard Azora say. My memory from my childhood has been very extraordinary. I believe there are few living exceed me in this respect. The greatest part of what I read and hear, remains with me, as if the book was still before me, or the speaker going on. This enables me to write down, with much exactness, what I care to note, and I can do it for the most part in the relater's or talker's own words, if I minute it in my short hand within twenty-four[Page 244]
hours after reading or discoursing. Upon this account, I can say, that I lost very little of all that Azora was pleased to let me hear; or, of the discourses I had with her ingenious companion, Antonia Fletcher.125 When I had done writing, I went out to wait upon the ladies, and found them in their fine gardens, busily employed in the useful and innocent diversion which the cultivation of some of the greatest beauties of the creation affords. They had every kind of fruit tree in their ground, every plant and flower that grows, and such a variety of exotic rarities from the hotter climates, as engaged my admiration, and finely entertained me for many an hour, during my stay in this place. They both understood gardening to perfection, and continually lent their helping hands to the propagation of every thing. The digging and laborious work was performed by many young women, who did it with great activity and understanding, and the nicer parts these ladies executed. I was astonished and delighted with their operations of various kinds. It was beautiful to see with what exquisite skill they used the knife, managed graffs and cyons, directed the branches and twigs in posture on espaliers, and raised flowers. They had every thing in perfection in their kitchen garden and physic garden. Their fruits, roots, and[Page 245]
herbs for the table, were most excellent: their collection of herbs for medicine the most valuable: and as the whole contrivance of the gardens was near nature, and beautiful in grass, gravel, and variety of evergreens, I was led with delight thro' the whole, till I came into the green-house. There I saw Azora and Antonia at work, and paid them the compliments they deserved.126 Immediately after my arrival, breakfast was brought in there, chocolate and toasts, and the ladies were extremely pleasant over it. They asked me a great many questions about the world, and were so facetious in their remarks, and pleased with my odd account of things, that they laughed as heartily as I did, and that was at no small rate. This being done, we walked over every part of the gardens, and Azora did me the honour not only to shew me all the curiosities, and improvements she had made, in the management of seeds, flowers, plants, and trees; but, lectured on various fine objects that appeared in our way, with a volubility of tongue, and a knowledge of the subjects, that was amazing indeed. Were I to set down what she said even on sallads, cucumbers, colliflowers, melons, asparagus, early cabbages, strawberries, rasberries, currants, goosberries, apples, pears, plums, cherries, apricots, etc, and especially, her propagation of mushrooms, champignons,[Page 246]
and buttons; this, exclusive of exotics and flowers, would make I believe an octavo: and in relation to exotics and flowers, I am sure she talked twice as much, and of every thing extremely well. I never did hear any thing like her. The discourse cost her no more than the breath of her nostrils.127 But at last we came to a fish-pond, that was an acre of water, and I assure you, reader, that in half an hour's time, the illustrious Azora not only talked more of fish and ponds than the ingenious and honourable Roger North, of Rougham in Norfolk, hath written on these subjects in his excellent discourse, printed in 1713; but, mentioned many useful things relative to them, which Mr. North was a stranger to. She told me, among other matters, that there was only pike and perch in her pond, and that the reason of it was, because she loved pike above all fish, and as the jacks were fish of prey, no fish but the perch could live with them: The perch on account of the thorny fins on its back, escapes the pike's voracious appetite. She farther informed me, that the jacks in her pond were the finest in the world, as I would see at dinner, and that the reason of it was owing to the high feeding she took care they had every day: beside the entrails of what fowl and sheep her people killed for her table and themselves, the pike had blood and[Page 247]
bran mixed in plenty, and all the frogs she could get from a neighbouring fen; for of them the jacks are most fond. This made the fish extraordinary: and as the water was current thro' the pond, and the bottom of various depths from one foot, and two feet, to six feet, that the spawn may have shallow water to lie in, and the fry shallow water to swim in, as they both required, this was the reason, that one acre of water in such a manner, produced double the quantity of fish to what a pond of still water, and a bottom all of one depth, could have. See (Azora continued) what multitudes there are. They know me, as I feed them myself every day, and tamely come up, cruel tyrants as they are, to get their meat. Here she called jack, jack, and throwing in a basket of unfortunate frogs, it was wonderful to see how those devouring monsters appeared, and voraciously swallowed the poor things.128 Azora was going to proceed to another pond of carp and tench, which she had at the other end of her gardens, and let me know how that was ordered, so as to produce the largest and finest fish: but a bell rung for morning prayers, at ten o'clock, and she immediately turned towards a chapel. She asked me if I would attend divine service, and upon my answering, with pleasure, desired me to come on. In the church I[Page 248]
saw every soul of the community assembled, and while I chose to sit on one of the benches among the people, at some distance, that I might the better observe every thing done, the ladies ascended by a few steps into a reading desk, and Azora began with great devotion, to pray in the following manner:129 O Christ, our blessed mediator, pray for us that our faith fail not, and thro' thy merits and intercession, Lord Jesus, let our prayer be set forth in the sight of Almighty God as incense, and the lifting up of our hands as a morning sacrifice.Almighty and everlasting God, thou pure and infinite Spirit, who art the great cause and author of nature, and hast established the world by thy wisdom, and stretched out the heavens by thy discretion; upon whom depends the existence of all things, and by whose providence we have been preserved to this moment, and enjoyed many blessings and undeserved advantages; graciously accept, we beseech thee, our grateful sense and acknowledgements of all thy beneficence towards us; accept, O Lord, our most hearty and unfeigned thanks for all the instances of thy favor which we have experienced; that we have the use of our reason and understanding, in which many fail, and have had refreshing sleep and quiet the past night; for delivering us from evil, and giving us our[Page 249]
daily bread;-for all the necessaries, conveniences, and comforts, which thy liberal hand hast provided for us, to sweeten human life, and render it more agreeable than otherwise it could be in this day of our exercise, probation and trial. While we live, we will praise and magnify thy awful name, and join in ascribing with the glorious and innumerable heavenly host, honour, power, and thanksgiving to the eternal God, who sits on the throne of supremacy unrivalled in majesty and power.But especially, O great and blessed God, adored be thy goodness for so loving the world, as to give thy only begotten Son, to the end, that all who believe in him, should not perish, but have everlasting life; for his humbling himself even to the death upon the cross, and shedding his blood for the remission of our sins. Great and marvellous are thy works of mercy, O Lord God Almighty! who can utter all thy praise? Praise our God, all ye his servants, and ye that fear him, small and great. Amen; allelujah. Blessing and honour, and glory, and power be unto him that sitteth upon the throne, and to the Lamb for ever and ever.O God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, have mercy on us dust and sin, weakness and imperfection, and enter not into strict judgment with us, thine unrighteous[Page 250]
and unworthy servants. We confess with shame and grief, that we have violated thine holy laws, and abused thy tender mercies: that we have followed too much the devices and desires of our own hearts, and in numberless instances have offended against a most righteous governor, a most tender and compassionate Father, and a most kind and bounteous benefactor. In thought, word, and deed, many have been our offences: and many are still our imperfections. We have sinned against Heaven, and before thee, and have thereby deserved thy just displeasure. But our hope and confidence is in thine infinite mercy, O God, and that according to thy promises declared unto mankind in Christ Jesus, our Lord, thou wilt spare them who confess their faults, and restore them that are penitent. We do earnestly repent, and are heartily sorry for all our misdoings. Thro' faith we offer up the Lamb that was slain to the eternal God for the redemption of our souls; believing the worthiness of our Lord Jesus Christ to be a full, perfect, and sufficient sacrifice, oblation and atonement for the sins of a repenting world, and therefore resolving, with all our strength, to imitate his spotless virtue, and perfect obedience. Pardon us, then, we beseech thee, and blot out our iniquities. Deliver us, we pray, in the name of the[Page 251]
Lord Jesus, from the evil consequences of all our transgressions and follies, and give us such powers and dispositions as will carry us innocently and safely thro' all future trials.Create in us, O God, pure hearts, and renew right spirits within us. Cast thy bright beams of light upon our souls, and irradiate our understandings with the rays of that wisdom which sitteth on the right hand of thy throne. Let thy holy spirit enable us to act up to the dignity of our reasonable nature, and suitably to the high character, and glorious hopes of christians: that we may subordinate the affairs and transactions of time to serve the interest of our souls in eternity: that we may shake off this vain world, and breathe after immortality and glory: that we may live in perfect reconciliation with the law of everlasting righteousness, truth, and goodness; and so comply with thy nature, mind, and will, O eternal and sovereign spirit, thou God most wonderful in all perfections, that we may fully answer the relation we stand in to thee. Relieve and ease our consciences, O blessed God, by the blood of sprinkling, according to our several conditions of body and mind; and supply us with suitable grace and strength.We beseech thee, in the next place, Almighty Lord, to take us into thy protection this day, and suffer no Being to injure us, no mistune[Page 252]
to befal us, nor us to hurt ourselves by any error or misconduct of our own. Give us, O God, a clear conception of things, and in all dangers and distresses, stretch forth the right hand of thy Majesty to help and defend us. From sickness and pain, and from all evil and mischief, good Lord deliver us this day, and be propitious unto us, we beseech thee.And while we remain in this world, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, secure us from every thing that is terrible and hurtful, and keep us in peace and safety. From all sad accidents and calamitous events, from all tormenting pains and grievous diseases, good Lord deliver us; and bless us with so much health and prosperity, as will enable us to pass our time here in contentment and tranquillity.And when the time of our dissolution cometh, by the appointment of thy adorable wisdom, O Father of mercies and the God of all comforts, grant us a decent and happy exit; without distraction of mind or torments of body: let thy servants depart in peace, and suddenly die in the Lord.We pray, likewise, for the happiness of all mankind: that they may all know, and obey, and worship thee, O Father, in spirit and in truth, and that all who name the name of Christ, may depart from iniquity,[Page 253]
and live as becomes his holy gospel. We beseech thee to help and comfort all who are in danger, necessity, sickness, and tribulation: that it may please thee to sanctify their afflictions, and in thy good time to deliver them out of all their distresses. If we have any enemies, O Lord forgive them, and turn their hearts.Our Father, etc.When this extraordinary prayer was done, (which was prayed with a very uncommon devotion, such as I never had seen before) they all stood up, and Azora said, Let us sing the nineteenth psalm to the praise and glory of the most high God, and immediately raised it. Then all the people joined, and a psalm was sung to perfection indeed. Azora and Antonia had delightful voices, and as they understood music very well, they had taught this congregation so much church harmony, as enabled them to perform beyond any thing I have ever heard in any assembly of people. -The whole scene was a strange and pleasing thing. They met again at four in the afternoon; and this is the work of their every day. At ten and four they go to prayers, and after it sing a psalm; concluding always in the following way. -May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ procure us the love of God, that the Almighty Father of[Page 254]
the universe may bless us with the heavenly assistance of the Holy Ghost.130 As to the evening-office of devotion at this place, it was, exclusive of the first address, and the concluding Lord's Prayer, quite different from that of the morning; and because some readers may be pleased with a sight of another of Azora's religious compositions, I here set it down.O Christ, our blessed mediator, pray for us, that our faith fail not, and through thy merits and intercession, Lord Jesus, let our prayer be set forth in the sight of Almighty God as incense, and the lifting up of our hands as an evening-sacrifice.O God, who art the Father and Lord of all Beings, and the eternal and inexhaustible fountain of mercy, we beseech thee to be merciful unto us, and to blot out all our transgressions; for we truly repent of our wilful imperfections, our failings and neglects, in every instance of thy law, and our duty: and thro' faith we offer up to thee the Lamb that was slain for the redemption of our souls; believing the worthiness of our Lord Jesus to be a full, perfect, and sufficient sacrifice, oblation and atonement for the sins of a repenting world, and therefore resolving, with all our strength, to imitate his spotless virtue and perfect obedience.
[Page 255]
Remember not, then, O Lord, our iniquities, neither take thou vengeance for our sins; but as we sincerely believe thy holy gospel, and are truly penitent, as we intirely and willingly forgive all, who have, in any instance or in any degree, offended, or injured us, and are truly disposed and ready to make all possible reparation, if we have injured any one, have mercy upon us miserable sinners, and as thou hast promised by thy Son, pardon and forgive us all our sins, and restore us again to thy favor. Hear in heaven, thy dwelling place, and when thou hearest, accept us to thy mercy. O spare us whom thou hast redeemed by thy Son's most precious blood, and make us partakers of that salvation which thou hast appointed in Christ Jesus our Lord, and our souls shall bless thee to eternity.And that we may no more offend thee, or transgress the rule of virtue or true religion, but may hereafter truly please thee both in will and deed, and faithfully observe the right statutes, and all thy precepts, endue us, O Lord, with the grace of thy holy spirit, that we may amend our lives according to thy holy word. Vouchsafe we beseech thee, to direct, sanctify and govern both our hearts and bodies in the ways of thy laws, and in the works of thy commandments; and so teach us to number our days,[Page 256]
that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom, and mind those things which are in conjunction with our everlasting welfare. -O let us be always under thy communication and influence, and give that light to our minds, that life to our souls, that will raise us to a nearer resemblance of thee, and enable us to ascend still higher, towards the perfection of our nature. Let us be transformed by the working of thy grace and spirit into the image of thy Son. Conform us to his likeness, O blessed God, and make us, body and soul, an habitation for thyself; that in our hearts we may continually offer up to thee, holy, sublime, and spiritual sacrifices.From all evil and mischief, good God deliver us, and defend us, we beseech thee, from every thing terrible and hurtful. Take us under thy protection the remaining part of this day, and grant us a night of peace, thro' Jesus Christ our Lord.And forasmuch as our earthly house of this tabernacle shall be dissolved, and that in a few years at farthest, it may be in a few minutes, we must descend to the bed of darkness, and acknowledge corruption to be our father, and the worms our sister and mother, grant, O everlasting God, that we may depart in peace, and by an improved principle of divine life, under the influence of the gospel, be translated to that eternal world,[Page 257]
where God dwells, where Christ lives, and sanctified souls enjoy endless life and the purest pleasures, for evermore.That it may please thee, most gracious and good God, to have mercy on the whole race of mankind, and to bless them with all things pertaining to life and godliness: let the light of thy glorious gospel shine upon the nations darkened by superstition, that they may worship thee who art God from everlasting to everlasting, and cultivate and establish in their minds the most pure, benevolent, and godlike dispositions. -We beseech thee for all christian churches; that their behaviour may, by the influence of thy blessed spirit, be suitable to their holy profession, and their conversation upright and unblameable. Where any have departed from the purity and simplicity of the gospel, lead them, O God, to the right practice and knowledge of their holy religion; and grant that they may feel the comfortable and sanctifying effects of it; and in their lives shew forth its praise to others. -We farther pray, most merciful Father, for all that are destitute or afflicted, either in body, mind, or estate; that from Heaven, the habitation of thy glory and goodness, thou mayest send them relief, and, if it be possible, put an end to their present calamities and troubles. O thou Father of mercies, and God of all[Page 258]
consolation, bind up the broken in heart, and comfort those that mourn. We have a real sense of the miseries of the distressed part of mankind, and offer up for them our prayers to thee, thro' Jesus Christ our Lord.A THANKSGIVING.
O God, the author of all good, and fountain of all happiness, we offer up our thanksgivings and praises unto thee, for thy great goodness to us, and to all mankind. We praise and magnify thy holy name for all thy mercies; for our existence, and the use of our reasoning powers and faculties; for the health and strength we enjoy, and for all the comforts and conveniencies of life: for these thy gifts we adore thee, O munificent parent of good, and pray that a deep and efficacious sense of thy goodness may remain upon our hearts, and be a principle of constant and chearful obedience to thy holy laws.But especially we offer up the acknowledgements of our hearts and mouths for all that thy Son Jesus Christ did, and taught, and suffered, in this world, to save us from our sins, and to conduct us to true and everlasting happiness. We bless thee for the glorious gospel, and for bringing us more effectually, by revelation, to the knowledge of thee, and the practice of our duty. For[Page 259]
this merciful appointment, and for all thy mercies, which respect another and a better life than the present; for every instance of thy tender regards to us, and for the manifold experiences which we have had of thy loving kindness; we offer up the tribute of unfeigned thanks. Our souls do magnify thee, O Lord God most excellent and good, and all the powers within us praise thy holy name. To thee be glory in the church by Christ Jesus, throughout all ages, world without end. To thee, O thou God of love, be rendered by all beings endued with reason, all honour and obedience, both now, and for ever.Almighty and everlasting God, who hast promised to hear the petitions of them that pray unto thee in thy Son's name, we beseech thee of thy great mercy, to accept the sacrifice of prayer and praise, which we have this evening offered up to thy Divine Majesty; and for the relief of our wants, and the manifestation of thy power and glory, grant us those things which we have requested, if thou seest it consistent with our chief and eternal good. In the name of thy Son Jesus Christ, and as his disciples, we pray, and in his words conclude the services of this day.Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, etc.After this, they all stood up, and as in the morning, Azora said, let us sing to the[Page 260]
praise and glory of God the 148th psalm. She sung the first verse alone, and at the second, they all joined, and went through the whole in a fine and heavenly manner. Then the service concluded with this benediction.The BENEDICTION.
May the God of grace and peace be with us and bless us. May his holy spirit keep us from falling, and preserve us blameless, unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.131 Thus ended the evening and morning offices of worship at Burcot-Lodge, and as I cannot sufficiently praise, so I could not enough admire the religion and piety of this congregation. The purity of their worship was charming: and in the ladies and their people a devotion was manifest, that looked more like that of heavenly spirits, than of beings in an animal frame; who are warped with the customs of the world, and perplexed with difficulties which arise from sensible objects. They appeared in high admiration of God, endeared to his righteous government, devoted to his holy laws, and powerfully drawn to imitate him in all his imitable perfections. Not one idle word, or careless look, did I hear or see, during the whole time of divine service; but,[Page 261]
like creatures fixed unchangeably in the interest of religion and virtue, and delighted with the joys of piety, their hearts melted in every part of their devotions, and their breasts were filled with the most grateful, transporting adorations and affections. So much beautiful religion I had not often seen in any assembly. They had a true sense indeed of the love and goodness of God, and of the grace and charity of Jesus Christ. They had all been carefully instructed by a wise and excellent man, who was not long since removed from them by death; and his daughter, the admirable Azora, in conjunction with his niece, the amiable Antonia, took all possible pains, since the decease of Mr. Burcot, to maintain the power of religion in their community, and keep the people hearty and steady in the principles and practice of it. This brings me again to the history of Azora.132 Azora Burcot was the daughter of a gentleman who was once possessed of a very great fortune, but by a fatal passion for the grand operation, and an opinion of the possibility of finding the philosopher's stone, he wasted immense sums in operations to discover that preparation, which forces the fæces of infused metals to retire immediately on its approach, and so turns the rest of the mass into pure gold; communicating the malleability[Page 262]
and great ductility of that metal, and giving it true specific gravity, that is, to water, as eighteen and one half is to one. His love of that fine, antient art, called chimistry, brought him into this misfortune. For improvement and pleasure, he had been long engaged in various experiments, and at last, an adept came to his house, who was a man of great skill in the labours and operations of spagyrists, and persuaded him it was possible to find the stone; for he, the adept, had seen it with a brother, who had been so fortunate as to discover it, after much labor and operation. The colour of it was a pale brimstone and transparent, and the size that of a small walnut. He affirmed that he had seen a little of this, scraped into powder, cast into some melted lead, and turn it into the best and finest gold. This had the effect the adept desired, and from chymistry brought Mr. Burcot to Alchimy. Heaps of money he wasted in operations of the most noble elixir by mineral and salt; but the stone after all he could not find: and then, by the adept's advice, he proceeded in a second method, by maturation, to subtilize, purify, and digest quicksilver, and thereby convert it into gold (20) 133 This likewise[Page 263]
came to nothing, and instead of the gold he expected, he had only heaps of Mercury fixed with verdegrease, (which[Page 264]
gives it a yellow tinge), and more deeply coloured with turmeric. Gold it seemed, but, on trial in the coppel, it flew away in fumes[Page 265]
and the adept made off. Too late this good and learned man saw he had been imposed on, and that the Spagyrists are what Dr. Dickenson calls them Enigmatistinubivagi.Chymistry, reader, is a fine and antient art. The analysing of sensible bodies by fire, to discover their real powers and virtues, is highly praise-worthy, and the surprising experiments we make, fill the mind of an inquirer after truth, with the greatest veneration for the wonderful author of nature: but more than this is a sad romance that ends in empty pockets. Never think then of the hermetical banquet, Glauber's golden ass, or the philosopher's magical gold. By the law of honest industry, endeavour to be rich if you can, for this sole reason, that it is more blessed to give than to receive; and if that lies not within your capacity, or means, be content with peace and little. There is more true happiness in daily bread and the possession of the divine and social virtues, than in[Page 266]
tons of gold without holiness and a strong attachment to virtue.When Mr. Burcot found he had almost ruined himself, and that he was no longer able to live as he had done, he laid his melancholy case before his daughter Azora, and asked her advice, What he should do? To retire immediately, (Azora said) to this part of Stanemore, which was an unvalued part of his estate, and bring as many of his tenants as he could persuade to inhabit this fine tract of land:-to sell what remained of his fortune, and with the money procure as many of the necessaries or comforts of living as could be had: to get in particular some young tradesmen and their wives by offered rewards in this place; to build cottages for the people; and render the fine caverns in the rock as habitable and pleasing for themselves as art could render them. Here, (Azora told her father) we shall live more happy than we could do, if still possessed of a fortune to make an appearance in the world. We shall enjoy by industry and prudence every good thing that rational life can require, and live secured from the strokes of fortune, and the world's contempt. Strangers to vanity and the pleasures of high life, in this delightful retreat, we shall pass our happy[Page 267]
days as in a region of goodness, knowledge, and joy; and the predominant bent of our hearts will be to wisdom, and virtue, and to ascend into the realms of perfect day. ---Happy advice, (the father of Azora said), and the thing was immediately done. A colony was quickly established here, and every thing was settled and ordered in the most advantageous manner. Cattle, instruments, and grain to sow the land were sent in; cloaths and every material the little republic could want were provided, and every hand was as useful as we could wish. For four years (Azora continued to inform me), we lived in peace and tranquillity, and never once regretted the loss of our fortunes. We were happier far than when we had thousands. Industry, knowledge, and religion, were our employment. The night to come of pain and death gave us no uneasiness. We lived as the christians of the two first centuries, and rather longed for than feared that event, which is to remove us to growing brightness for ever and ever. But a fever came in among us, and swept away my father, and every man of our little republic: several women likewise perished; but a hundred souls remained. Ninety-eight women, besides Antonia and Azora. These loved me too well (Azora continued) to abandon me; and as they were happily situated, and many of them had learned their husband's[Page 268]
trades, they agreed and swore to spend their lives with me here, and be as serviceable as possible, without admitting any men to live among us. They are so in the highest degree: they are all useful and pious as I could wish them, and under the heavens there is not a happier society of mortals. We have the best of every thing: all we want, and in reason could wish for.134 Here Azora ended her relation, and I wondered greatly at what I heard; nor did my admiration lessen when I saw how she governed this community, and they employed their time. Her great understanding enlightened and directed them, in the execution of every thing serviceable and ingenious; and she lived before their eyes an example of the greatest industry, and the most exalted piety. They, on the other hand, were as useful and religious as possible, and so heartily and faithfully discharged social duties, in every instance, that they seemed as one great capacity and power at work, to promote every convenience and good. Some of them, as I have said, were at work in the gardens: others in the fields: various trades and occupations were going on within doors and without, and all were employed in ways that best subserved the general welfare. In their behaviour, there was nothing wild, insolent, or arch, to be seen: no swellings of vanity and pride: no passion to disoblige: no[Page 269]
intention to offend: but, every one, discreet and calm; good-humoured, and very civil; worthily sustaining their various relations, and each attentive to her own incumbent duty. Their labours were but a diversion to them, and they lived in tranquillity and plenty. Their cloathing was coarse, but very good, clean, and handsome. There was not one ragged or dirty person among them; nor any with bad shoes and stockings. In all respects, they seemed a most happy community. Azora studied, to the utmost degree, the advantage and happiness of these people: and they, in return, made their duty a vigorous and chearful service. Most of the conveniences and comforts of life they had within their own little territory; flesh and fish, mutton, kid, and venison; corn for bread, every vegetable; malt-drink, meath, and cyder; all in great plenty, and most excellent; wool and flax for clothing; good candles; and wood enough for firing. What things they wanted two of them rid for to the nearest town, and not only purchased such goods with the money they got by sale of several commodities; especially knit thread stockings and gloves; but always at such times brought in some cash to their mistress, and she gave part of it among the people, to buy them little things they fansied.
[Page 270]
135 As to the ten young women I mentioned, who walked after Azora when first I saw her, they were the daughters of some widows in this little republic, and by her chosen, not only to be her attendants and upper servants, and to look after her dairy, her bees, her poultry; and her aviary; (which was the finest I have ever seen, for the variety of birds, and as it was turfed, to avoid the appearance of foulness on the floor, and so large as to give the birds some freedom of flight); but, on account of their good understanding, in which they far excelled their fellows. These girls were carefully instructed by Azora and Antonia, and beside being taught the fine works of the needle, learned musick, and the elements of the mathematicks from the ladies. The eldest of these girls was but twenty, and the youngest eighteen, and they all surprized me very greatly with their quickness in answering very hard arithmetical questions. They could not only add, subtract, multiply, divide, find a fourth proportional, and extract roots of every kind, with exactness and readiness, and apply them upon all common occasions; but, were perfect in fractions vulgar and decimal. They had even gone as far in algebra as the resolution of simple equations.
[Page 271]
Finding them one morning at figures, I asked the youngest of them, What was the number, that 2/3 of it with 4 over, amounted to the same as 7/12 of it with 9 over? She immediately translated the question from common language into algebra ? and quickly discovered the unknown quantity x to be x=60: Then she took it in sinthetically, ? of 60=40 +4=44: 7/12 of 60=35+9=44. - (Sinthetically is tracing property from number: -Analetically is tracing number from property.) This made me wonder very greatly. I asked another of them, if she bought 20 loaves for 16 pence, all of them two-penny, penny, and farthing ones-how many would she have of each? She answered 5 two-penny loaves, 3 penny ones, and 12 farthing loaves; for the equations were x+y+z=20 and 8x+4y=z =64. From whence by subtraction, 7x+3y =44, and of consequence,I asked a third, how many ways she could pay 20 l. in pistoles, guineas, and moidores, at 17 s. 21 s, and 27 s. the pistole, the guinea, and the moidore? -She replied in a very little time, 9 ways, to wit, 11 pistoles, 5 guineas, and 4 moidores-8 pistoles, 1 guinea, 9 moidores-8 pistoles, 10 guineas, 2 moidores -17 pistoles, 4 guineas, 1 moidore-2 pistoles, 2 guineas, 12 moidores-2 pistoles,[Page 272]
11 guineas, 5 moidores-5 pistoles, 6 guineas, 7 moidores-5, 15, 0-and 14 pistoles, 0 guineas, 6 moidores. This was a hard operation.I asked another of these young women, if her lady gave her 297 guineas and 339 pistoles, to pay 6 men a hundred pounds a-piece in guineas and pistoles only, as was agreed, how could she contrive to pay them, and dispatch the thing? I will tell you, sir, (she answered) very soon. x represents my guineas, and y my pistoles, and 21x+17y=2000, of consequence, etc. and quickly discovered, that the first man should have 92 guineas and 4 pistoles:-the second man, 75 guineas and 25 pistoles:-the third, 58 guineas, 46 pistoles-the fourth, 41 guineas and 67 pistoles-the fifth, 24 guineas and 88 pistoles:-and the sixth man, 7 guineas and 109 pistoles. This was admirable. But is there no other way I said of paying 100 l. in guineas and pistoles, besides the six ways you have mentioned? There is no other way: (the fine girl answered). If a seventh man was to be paid 100 l. in these two kinds of money, he must be paid in one of these six methods. This was true. I was charmed with what I had heard.
[Page 273]
While I was thus engaged with the maids, Azora and Antonia came into the room, and finding how I had been employed, they began to talk of problems, theorems, and equations, and soon convinced me, that I was not superior to them in this kind of knowledge; tho' I had studied it for a much longer time, and had taken more pains than ever they did. Their fine understandings saw at once the things that had made me sweat many an hour, and in less time than I required for an operation, they could answer the most difficult questions, and do any thing in simple quadratic equations, and in the composition and resolution of ratios. This I thought very wonderful; especially as they had been taught no longer than one year by Mr. Burcot; and that they had acquired the most abstruse part of their knowledge by their own application. -I note the thing down as one of the strangest and most extraordinary cases that ever came in my way; perhaps, that ever was heard. It is such a specimen of female understanding, as must for ever knock up the positive assertions of some learned men, who will not allow that women have as strong reasoning heads as the men.136 By the way, I observe, exclusive of these two ladies, that I have seen many of the[Page 274]
sex who were distinguished for accuracy and comprehensiveness, not only in the science, where known and required qualities are denoted by letters, but in other fine parts of learning. I have little right to pretend to any thing extraordinary in understanding, as my genius is slow, and such as is common in the lower classes of men of letters; yet, my application has been very great: my whole life has been spent in reading and thinking: and nevertheless, I have met with many women, in my time, who, with very little reading, have been too hard for me on several subjects. In justice, I declare this; and am very certain from what I have heard numbers of them say, and seen some of them write, that if they had the laboured education the men have, and applied to books with all possible attention for as many years as we do; there would be found among them as great divines as Episcopius, Limborch, Whichcote, Barrow, Tillotson, and Clarke; and as great mathematicians, as Maclaurin, Saunderson, and Simpson. The criticks may laugh at this assertion, I know they will: and, if they please, they may doubt my veracity as to what I relate of the two ladies, and the ten young women, in Burcot-Hamlet; but what I say is true notwithstanding. Facts are things too stubborn[Page 275]
to be destroyed by laughing and doubting.As to the ladies I have mentioned, they both did wonders in specious arithmetick; but Azora was the brightest of the two, and in pure algebra, had gone much farther than Antonia. With wonder I beheld her, while she answered the most difficult questions as fast as fingers could move; and in the solution of cubics, and the resolution of equations, both according to Des Cartes laborious method, and the better universal way, by converging series, work with a celerity and truth beyond what I have ever seen any man do. Nor was it only algebra independent of geometry that she understood. She could apply its reasoning to geometrical figures, and describe the loci of any equations by the mechanical motion of angles and lines. She was in this respect the greatest prodigy I ever saw.But it was not on account of this excellence that I so much admired Azora, and honour her memory so greatly as I do; nor because she talked so excellently on various subjects, as I have related; but, for her knowledge of the truths of christianity, and the habits of goodness she had wrought into her soul; for the care she took of the people under her government, by communicating every felicity in her power, to their bodies[Page 276]
and minds; and the pure religion of Christ Jesus, which she publickly maintained, in all the beauty of holiness, and in a just fervor of practice. She was herself, in her manners and piety, a fine copy of those blessed women who conversed with our Lord and his apostles: and her society, in innocence and goodness, in usefulness and devotion, seemed an epitome of the first christian church at Jerusalem. Under a just impression of the most heavenly principles they all lived, and strictly regarded their several offices. As the gospel directs, they worshipped a first cause, the Deity, as the disciples of the Christ of God, our holy mediator; and the authority of a Being of infinite wisdom, and unchangeable rectitude of nature, had made such an impression upon their minds, that they laboured continually to acquire that consecration and sanctity of heart and manners, which our divine religion requires. Excellent community! happy would Europe be, if all her states were like this people. A false religion would not then prevail; nor would superstition be the idol to which the world bows down. The evils, which now dishonour human nature, and infest society, would not be seen among us; nor those excesses of passion be known, which are the parent of discord and calamity, and render this lower world one scene of sin and sorrow: but, as[Page 277]
revelation inculcates, as reason suggests, mankind would worship the Almighty Principle, the One God, the Only True God, with a worship suitable to the nature of a Being, who is not confined to, or dependent upon, particular places and circumstances, who is always, and every where present with us; and like the ministers attending on the glorious throne of the Monarch of the world, they would, according to their measure, be pure, benevolent mortals, and as perfect in goodness, as men can be within the degree and limit of their nature. -In a word, the Supreme Father of all things would then be the God of all christians; and in doing his will, in imitating his perfections, and in practising every thing recommended by the great and universal law of reason, (that law which God sent our Lord to revive and enforce), they would find the greatest pleasure. Such were the people of Burcot-Hamlet. Azora and Antonia were indeed most glorious women (21) 137
[Page 278]

45.138 The 18th of June, 1725, I took my leave of Mrs. Burcot and Mrs. Fletcher, (for so they would be called, as they informed[Page 279]
me, after I had once used the word Miss), and from this fine place, proceeded on my[Page 280]
journey, by a paper of written directions had received from them; as there was a pretty good, tho' a long and tedious way out[Page 281]
of the mountains, if a traveller knew the passes and turnings; but otherwise, it was either impossible to go on; or, a man must journey at the hazard of his life a thousand[Page 282]
times a day, in crossing waters and precipices.
[Page 283]
Our first labour was to ascend a very narrow steep way in the side of a mountain, which went up due north for a full mile, and[Page 284]
brought us to another large, standing, black and unfathomable water, on the top of this high hill. There was no appearance of any[Page 285]
feeders to supply this frightful lake, and therefore, and on account of its blackness, the surface must communicate with the abyss. From this water we rid due east for half an hour, and then descended to a sandy valley, where flames were rising from the ground. The fire came up without noise, smoak, or smell, and appeared to me very wonderful: but such things are common in many parts of the world. In the side of one of the Apennines, I have seen a large blazing vale. The learned tell us, this is owing to rich veins of bitumen, which crops in such places, and the heat of the air between the hills, in shallow vallies, causes it to burn. This crop of bitumen, and accension by the agitation of a hot air, is well fancied, I own: but it does[Page 286]
not give me full satisfaction. I think of this, and many other natural things, as Mr. Moyle does of the Aurora Borealis;-that these uncommon appearances should be looked on with wonder and admiration, and raise in us a due reverence of their great Author, who has shewn his Almighty power and wisdom in forming such an infinite variety of productions in all parts of the universe. Philosophy undertakes to account for every thing. I am sure it is in many cases mistaken.29.139 Having passed the burning valley, we rid over a river, that was up to the horses bellies, very rapid, and a bad bottom, and then proceeded along a steep hill side, the course N. W. till we came to a rich low land, that was covered with flowers and aromatic shrubs, and adorned with several clumps of oak, chestnut, and white walnut trees. This plain is about twenty five acres, surrounded with stony mountains, some of which are very high and steep, and from the top of one of the lowest of them, a cataract descends, like the fall of the river Niagara in Canada, or New France, in North America. Swifter than an arrow from a bow the rapid water comes headlong down in a fall of 140 feet, which is 3 feet more than the descent of Niagara. The river here, to be sure, is not half so large as that which comes from the vast lakes of Canada, but it is a great and prodigious cadence of water, and tumbles[Page 287]
perpendicular in as surprizing a manner, from as horrible a precipice; and in this very nearly resembles the Niagara-Fall; that as you stand below, as near the fall as it is safe to go, you see the river come down a sloping mountain for a great way, as if it descended from the clouds. It is a grand and amazing scene. The water issues from a great lake on the top of a mountain that I found very hard to ascend, and the lake has many visible feeders from hills upon hills above it, which it is impossible to climb.30.140 It was 12 o'clock by the time we arrived at this water-fall, and therefore I sat down by the side of it to dine, before I attempted to get up to the top of the precipice, and see from whence this water came. While my eyes were entertained with the descending scene, I feasted on a piece of venison pasty, and some fine ale, which, among other provisions, Mrs. Burcot had ordered her servants to put up for me: but as I was thus happily engaged, my lad, O Fin, had climbed up to the top of the water-fall, and was going to land from a tree that grew out of the rocky mountain, near the summit of the hill, when his foot slipt, and he came tumbling down in a miserable way. I expected him in pieces on the ground, as I had him full in my view. There seemed no possibility of an escape: and yet he received no harm. In the middle of[Page 288]
the descent, he stuck in another projecting thick tree, and from it came safely down. This was a deliverance. Providence often saves us in a wonderful manner, 'till the work appointed to be finished is done, or the limited time of our trial over. In relation to such escapes, I could give myself as an instance many a time, and will here mention one extraordinary case.31.141 As I travelled once in the county of Kerry in Ireland, with the White Knight, and the Knight of the Glin (22) 142 . We called at Terelah[Page 289]
O Crohanes, an old Irish gentleman, our common friend, who kept up the hospitality of his ancestors, and shewed how they lived, when Cormac Mac Cuillenan, the Generous, (from whose house he descended) was king of Munster and Archbishop[Page 290]
of Cashel, in the year 913 (23.) 143 There was no end of eating and drinking there, and the famous Downe Falvey played on the harp. For a day and a night we sat[Page 291]
to it by candle-light, without shirts or cloaths on; naked, excepting that we had our breeches and shoes and stockings on;[Page 292]
and I drank so much burgundy in that time, that the sweat ran of a red colour down my body; and my senses were so disordered, that when we agreed to ride out for a couple of hours to take a little air, I leaped my horse into a dreadful quarry, and in the descent was thrown into a large deep water that was in a part of the frightful bottom, and by that means saved my life. When I came above water, I swam very easily out of the pit, and walked up the low side of the quarry as sober as if I had not drank a glass. This is a fact, whatever the critics may say of the thing. All I can say to it is, my hour was not come.49.144 Having dined, and shot a bustard that weighed forty pounds, I went on again, the course north-west for half a mile, and then, to my astonishment, it trended to the south for more than an hour; which was going back again: but at last it turned about, and for half an hour, we went to the northwest again, and then due east for a long time, till we came to hills upon hills that were[Page 293]
very difficult to pass. We were obliged to alight at many of them, and walk them up and down, which was a delay of many hours: but we did it at last, and came into a large sandy opening, that had a number of rapid streams breaking over it, that fell from the mountains, and with the forest on the surrounding hills, formed a very wild and pleasing scene. Over this we went for half a mile, and then came to a long glin, so very deep and narrow, that it was quite night when we got to the bottom of it, tho' the sun was not yet down; and it brought to my remembrance Anchises's son, the wandering prince of Troy, when he descended to the shades below. It had the appearance indeed of some such pass, and was a frightful way, as hills, like Caucasus and Atlas, were close on either hand of us, and a river roared thro' the bottom of the steep descent; which we were obliged to walk down on foot. This could not be the right road I was certain. Azora and Antonia could never pass this deep and rapid flood. It was too much for any man to venture into, without knowing where the torrent went, or how the channel of the river was form'd.Up then I came again to the day, and resolved to pass the night at the foot of one of the woody hills, on the margin of the streams that sounded sweetly over the shoars:[Page 294]
but how to proceed the next morning I knew not. As my paper of directions did not mention the dark steep descent we had been down, but a little valley that lay due east, through which we were to go: no such vale could we see, and of consequence, in some turning of the road, we had gone wrong.When I came among the trees, on the side of one of the mountains, I began to look for some convenient resting place, while my two boys were picking the bustard, and preparing a fire to roast it for supper, and wandered a good way till I saw a pretty hermitage in an open plain like a ring, and going up to it, found the skeleton of a man. He lay on a couch in an inward room without any covering, and the bones were as clean and white as if they had come from the surgeons hands. The pismires to be sure had eaten off the flesh. Who the man was, a paper lying on the table in a strong box informed me. It was called the case of John Orton.The CASE of John Orton.50.I was twenty years old when Charles the Second was restored, and being master of large fortunes, and educated in an aversion to puritans and republican principles, went into all the licentiousness and impieties, which overspread and corrupted this nation, when[Page 295]
that profligate prince ascended the throne. I drank up to the excess of the times: I debauched every woman I could get within my power, by gold, treachery, or force; maid, wife, and widow: I murdered several men in duels; and blasphemed the God of Heaven continually. The devil was my first and last toast; and, in a club I belonged to, I proceeded to such scarce credible wickedness, as to perform the part of the priest in our infernal sodality, and after using the words of consecration over the elements, gave the prophane bread and wine in the most horrible manner. I was the most abominable of mortals. Contrary to all the dictates and principles of wisdom, virtue, and honour I acted; bound myself in bondage to Satan; and lived the most execrable slave to the vilest inclinations, and most heinous habits. Scratch was the name I had for the evil one, and upon all occasions I invoked him. The last words I said every night, after lying down, were,---Scratch, tuck me in.In this diabolical manner did I pass my life away till I was forty, and in twenty years time committed every evil that can dishonour human manners, and infest society. I was a disgrace to my species, and unworthy of the name of man.
[Page 296]
But as I went on in this manner, and gloried only in outdoing the greatest scelerates in impiety and debauchery,-in being the chief instrument of Satan, and striving to bring every soul I got acquainted with, in subjection to the flesh and the devil; maliciously committing all manner of sin; and with greediness executing the suggestions of a defiled imagination, and the purposes of the most corrupt heart; I was struck one night with the most excruciating torments of body; and had, at the same time, such unspeakable horrors upon my mind, that I believe my condition resembled the state of the damned. The tortures all over my frame, were beyond the pains any rack could cause; but were less afflicting than the panick fear that harrowed my soul under a lively sense of eternal vengeance, for the crying enormities and impurities of my life. All my crimson crimes were held as in a mirror before me; the most diabolical impieties against heaven, and the most shocking cruelties to men; the numbers I had drank to death, and secured in the service of hell; the men I had sent to the other world by combat at pistol and sword; and the women I had ruined, not only in this life, but perhaps, for evermore; the miseries I had brought upon families, and the manifold afflictions I had been the author of for years after years,[Page 297]
by night and by day;-all these offences I saw like the hand-writing on the wall, and in a horror and consternation of mind, that words cannot describe, lay a miserable spectacle for two nights and two days. Tormented, perplexed, and confounded, I rolled from side to side, and condemned myself and my folly in the most doleful complaints; but dared not look up to a just Judge and offended God. No slumber for this time did approach my eyes; but in agonies I shook with a frightful violence, and thought every moment, that the demons my fancy had in view, were going to force my miserable soul away to everlasting inflictions, in the most dismal cavern of hell. Spent, however, at last, I fell into a short sleep. I had half an hour's rest, and in that slumber imagined, I heard a small voice say,-As I live, saith the Lord, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked; but that the wicked turn from his way, and live: Turn ye, turn ye from your evil ways; for why will ye die, O house of Israel. Rent your heart, and not your garments, and turn unto the Lord your God: for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and repenteth him of the evil.Upon this I awaked, and found my pains were gone. To heaven I lift my eyes, and as the tears poured down my face, cried out[Page 298]
to God for mercy. O God be merciful to me a sinner. Have mercy on me dust and sin, the vilest of all sinful creatures. To me belongs nothing but shame and confusion of face eternally. My portion should in justice be the lake of everlasting fire and brimstone. But O Lord God most mighty, O holy and most merciful Father, to thee belongeth infinite goodness and forgiveness. O remember not my sins and transgressions -my great and numberless provocations, and my trespasses that are grown up even unto heaven. Have mercy upon me, O God, after thy great goodness, and according to the multitude of thy mercies, do away mine offences. I have a hearty sense and detestation of all my abominations, and with a true contrition of heart, I repent of all my iniquities. Wash me, then, I beseech thee, O Father of mercies; wash my polluted soul in the blood of the holy Jesus, and forgive me all my sins, as I offer up a troubled spirit, and a broken and contrite heart, which thou hast promised not to despise. -And grant, O Lord God, my Father, that I may from this hour, by the guidance and direction of thy sanctifying spirit, bid a final adieu to all ungodliness and iniquity; and consecrate myself intirely to thee, to serve thee with humility, love and devotion, and for the remainder of my life, give thee the sacrifices of righteousness, through Jesus Christ our Lord.
[Page 299]
When I had thus implored the mercy of the Almighty, in a torrent of tears, with strong cryings, I found my heart quite easy, and my mind so filled with delights and comforts, that I cannot describe the strange happiness of my condition: but how to secure this felicity was the question. I was afraid of the world, and trembled when I thought of its temptations: beside, the great wickedness of my past life made it necessary that I should live in an extraordinary state of penitence, and by great mortification and piety, make what amends I could for sinning against heaven in the most atrocious manner; and wilfully, for a long series of years, breaking every law of the just and holy governor of the world. A change of mind, and common piety, were not enough for such a wretch as I had been. I was unworthy of the innocent comforts of life. I ought to breathe in sighs, and speak in groans. I resolved then to be a reform indeed, and in this part of Stanemore mountains, which I was well acquainted with, spend the remainder of my days, in the labours of a penitential piety.As I had no relations living, I sold what estates I had left, and gave almost the whole money among the poor. With the little I kept, I bought what necessary things I should want in my solitude; and with tools and seeds,[Page 300]
some cloaths and linnen, a few books, and other little matters, retired to this spot in the year 1681. I had some working men from the next village, to build me the little hut I live in; to sow my garden with every vegetable, and put some fruit-trees in the ground; to cut me a pile of firing from the woody hills; and make my place as convenient as my intended life could require. All this was soon done, and then I was left alone; in the possession of every thing I had a wish for in this world. It is now twenty years since my arrival here, and in all the time, I have not had one sick or dismal hour. My garden and my cottage employ me in agreeable labours, to furnish my table with roots and fruits; which is what I mostly live on; having nothing more but goats milk, and now and then a sea-biscuit; my drink being water, and sometimes a cup of meath of my own making.When I am weary of working, I sit down to study my Bible, and in that most perfect treasure of saving knowledge, I find such joys and satisfactions as make my life a scene of heavenly happiness, and charm me into raptures the nearer I approach to the hour of my dissolution. That will be a blessed hour. By the amazing mercy of God, vouchsafed through the Lord Jesus, my crimson sins are pardoned; and when the voice of the Son of[Page 301]
God, the thunder of the dreadful trumpet will awake all the dead, I shall have my part in the first resurrection, and ascend with the blessed to the eternal mansions of the sky. -Adored be thy goodness, most glorious Eternal. Inestimable is thy love in the redemption of sinners by the gospel, and the sacrifice of the holy Jesus!Fellow mortal, whoever thou art, into whose hands this paper cometh, take my advice, and remember thy latter end. If, like me, thou hast been betrayed by the demons into great impieties and presumptuous sins, and hast been persuaded to abdicate heaven, and its eternal hopes, in exchange for illicit gratifications of every kind, and the pleasures of this world; then, like me, repent, and in tears and mortification, implore the mercy of heaven. Turn to the everlasting Father of mercies, and the God of all comforts, after his own manner, with humility, sorrow, and resolutions of amendment, and in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, implore his compassion and forgiveness, and he will repent and turn unto thee. He will wash you in the blood of Jesus, and make you whiter than snow. When he sees the sinner a great way off in tears, fasting, and prayer, he will run unto him, and fall upon his neck and kiss him. You will become the beloved of the Father, and be reinstated in the favor of[Page 302]
the greatest and most glorious of immortal Beings. He will bless you here with that peace that passeth all understanding. He will bless you for ever hereafter with glory and honour in the kingdom he has prepared for the benevolent, the pure, and the honest. But if you continue to offend your Creator, and violate the laws of the God of heaven, then will you live exposed to judgments in this world, and most certainly will depart in confusion and misery. The demons you obeyed will gather round the pale, the guilty, the affrighted ghost of you, eager to involve your wretched spirit in their own horrors, and will drag it to their dismal regions. And when all the monuments of human power, wealth and pride shall be overthrown; the earth itself be in a blaze, and the sea turned into vapours, at the descent of the Son of God, to judge the vast congregation of the sons of men, the amazing assembly of mortals, unheard of generations raised from the grave, to have all their actions tried; every condition everlastingly determined; then will you be placed in that division which will call upon the rocks to hide them, and the hills to cover them from the face of the Judge; but in vain attempt to secret themselves from an infinite eye, and an Almighty power. Then will the terrors of the gospel stand in full force against thee, and in the[Page 303]
dreadful sentence pronounced against the guilty you must share-Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire. O dreadful doom! what a tremendous day to sinners! and to see the righteous acquitted, and before your eyes ascend in triumph and splendor into the mansions of glory, to live the happy favourites of God and Christ for never-ending ages; while you are driven forward to the infernal prison, and shut up in the habitations of eternal darkness and torments-the very thought of it, (if you will think seriously of it) is enough to curdle the blood, and wither in a moment every unlawful joy that sin can produce in bloom and glory. The despair, the sighs, the groans, the doleful shrieks, when the wicked are driven off to the regions of blackness and darkness for ever, are inexpressible. Think then. Think in time, my fellow mortal, and profit by the blood of a Saviour. Study his gospel. Hear his ministers. Regard the alarms of conscience, and submit to the influence of the holy Spirit.And if you are not that monster of iniquity I once was, before I obtained the divine mercy, by a timely and severe repentance, yet, as in heaven, so in hell, there are many mansions, and if you do not work out your salvation according to the terms of the gospel, and make every law of Christ the rules of your behaviour-if you do not[Page 304]
act continually as related to God, to each other, and to another world, and seek first the kingdom of God, and the righteousness thereof, you will utterly disqualify yourself for the rewards and happiness of heaven, tho' your conduct may be far from meriting the most dreadful inflictions in another world. The gains of unrighteousness, or medling with any forbidden fruit, is a violation of the laws of God that must ruin you for ever; tho' the punishment for so doing cannot be equal to the torments prepared for the tyrant and oppressor, the murderer, the adulterer, the drunkard, and offenders in the highest crimes. We must cease to do evil, and learn to do well, in order to be saved. Not according to promises and prayers at last, not according to legacies to be paid to the poor when we are dead, shall we be judged; but, as we have rectified the judgment and the will, made virtue the governor of the heart, and in all things sought God's glory, not our own. This do, and you will live.John Orton.May 1, 1701.51.145 This extraordinary paper surprized me very greatly, and when from reading it, I turned my eyes to the bones of John Orton, I could not help breaking out in the following reflection-And is this the once lively, gallant, drinking[Page 305]
Jack Orton, who thought for forty years that he was made for no higher end than to gratify every appetite, and pass away time in a continual circle of vanity and pleasure! Poor skeleton, what a miserable spectacle art thou! Not the least remain of activity and joy, of that sprightliness and levity of mind, that jocund humour and frolic, which rendered thee the delight of the wild societies of thy youthful time: Grim, stiff, and horrid, is the appearance now: vain mirth and luxury, licentious plays and sports, can have no connection with these dry bones.O Death, what a change dost thou make! The bulk of mankind are averse to serious thought, and hearken to the passions more than to the dictates of reason and religion: To kill time, and banish reflection, they indulge in a round of dissipations, and revel in the freedom of vicious excesses: Their attention is engrossed by spectacle and entertainments, and fixed to follies and trifles: giddy and unthinking, loose and voluptuous, they spend their precious hours in the gay scenes of diversions, pomp and luxury; and as if the grave and a judgment to come, were a romance of former times, or things from which they are secured, never think of these important and momentous subjects: with minds bewitched by exorbitant pleasure, and faculties enervated and broken by[Page 306]
idle mirth and vanity, they pass their every day away without any of that consideration which becomes reasonable beings, and creatures designed for a state of immortality: but at last, you appear, and in a moment turn delight and admiration, into aversion and horror: strength, wealth, and charms, you instantly reduce to weakness, poverty, and deformity, in the first place; and then, to a skeleton, like the bones before me.Nor is this the worst of the great revolution. When death approaches, the amusements of sense immediately fail, and past transactions, in every circumstance of aggravation, crowd into the mind: conscience reproaches loudly, the heart condemns, and the sick tremble at the apprehensions of a vengeance they laughed at in the days of diversion, and the midnight hours of the ball: as they come near the black valley, they see the realities of a future state; and agonies convulse their souls: terrors till then unknown enter their breasts; and, in anxieties that are incapable of being uttered, and expectations the most torturing, on a review of life, they pass from the plains of time into the ocean of eternity. Here lies the frame, like the dry bones before me; but, the soul is gone to the sessions of righteousness; and perhaps, the dreadful sentence of the divine justice is pronounced on it. This is a tremendous[Page 307]
affair, that calls for timely and serious consideration. Eternity! Eternal misery! They that have done evil, to come forth unto the resurrection of damnation!I will take thy advice then, thou glorious penitent, John Orton; and since it is in my power to come forth unto the resurrection of life, and obtain immortality, honour, and glory, with the righteous, in the kingdom of their father, I will open the reforming gospel night and morning, and by its heavenly directions regulate my conduct. I am determined to make a wise and serious preparation for death and judgment. To the best of my power, I will provide for that day, when the prayers and charities of the righteous will be brought forth as their memorials before the tribunal of Jesus Christ.This-this is the thing to be minded. The brightest scenes of worldly prosperity, and grandeur, are contemptible, when they do not accord with virtue and piety. Death, in a few years, blends the prince and the meanest subject, the conqueror and the slave, the statesman, the warrior, and the most insignificant, in one promiscuous ruin; and the schemes, the competitions, and the interests, which have engaged the chief attention of the world, are brought to nothing, and appear, too often, ridiculous: but righteousness is unchangeably[Page 308]
glorious, and in the universal ruin, receives no detriment: when all human power and policy will be extinct; concealed piety and persecuted virtue, will again appear, and be owned as His by the Lord of Hosts, in that day when he maketh up his jewels.I will love thee therefore, O Lord, my strength; yea, I will love thee: and it ever shall be my heart's desire, that my soul may behold by faith in its self, as in a glass, the glory of the Lord, able and ready to change it into the same image from glory to glory, reflected upon, and conveyed to it by the Spirit of the Lord. May my portion here be this blessed transforming union, that I may be made partaker of the divine nature, by impressions from it (24.) 146 I shall then have[Page 309]
all I wish, and all I want. With a settled indifference I shall then look upon the highest advantages of this world. I shall have[Page 310]
nothing to hope or to fear. The will of God will be to me unmixed felicity.
[Page 311]

52.147 Such was the soliloquy I spoke, as I gazed on the skeleton of John Orton; and just as I had ended, the boys brought in the wild turkey, which they had very ingeniously roasted, and with some of Mrs. Burcot's fine ale and bread, I had an excellent supper. The bones of the penitent Orton I removed to a hole I had ordered my lad to dig for them; the skull excepted, which I kept, and still keep on my table, for a memento mori; and that I may never forget the good lesson, which the percipient who once resided in it, had given. It is often the subject of my meditation. When I am alone of an evening, in my closet, which is often my case, I have the skull of John Orton before me, and as I smoak a philosophic pipe, with my eyes fastened on it, I learn more from the solemn object, than I could from the most philosophical and laboured speculations. What a wild and hot head once: how cold and still now; poor skull, I say: and what was the end of all thy daring frolics and gambols-thy licentiousness and impiety? -A severe and bitter repentance. In piety and goodness John Orton found at last that[Page 312]
happiness the world could not give him. There is no real felicity for man, but in reforming all his errors and vices, and entring upon a strict and constant course of virtue. This only makes life comfortable; renders death serene and peaceful; and secures eternal joy and blessedness hereafter. Such are the lessons I extract from the skull of John Orton.53.148 When I had supped, I went about, to see what things Mr. Orton had left behind him in his little cottage, and I found a field bed-stead large enough for two, with a mattrass, silk blankets, quilt, and cotton curtains; two oak stools, and a strong square table of the same wood. An oak settee, on which his bones lay; a silver lamp to burn oil in; a tinder-box and matches; a case of razors; six handsome knives and forks in a case; half a dozen china plates, two china dishes; and two pint mugs of the same ware; half a dozen drinking-glasses, a large copper kettle, a brass skillet, two silver spoons, and a silver ladle; in a chest were cloaths and linnen, shoes and stockings, and various useful matters. There were pens, ink, and paper in a writing-desk, and half a score guineas; and on a shelf over it, a dozen good books; three of which were, a large English bible, Thomas a Kempis, and Sir Walter Raleigh's history of the world: under the shelf hung a plain gold watch, and a large ring sun-dial. In a dark[Page 313]
closet, I found a box of sea-biskets, many flasks of oil for eating, and jars of it for the lamp; honey, salt, and vinegar; four dozen of quart bottles of meath, and two stone bottles, that held three gallons each, full of brandy: this I suppose was against the days of weakness or sickness. He had not used a pint of this liquor.Having found these things within doors, I proceeded from the house to the garden, which lay at a small distance from the little thatched mansion, and contained about four acres; it had been very beautifully laid out, and filled with the best fruit-trees, and all the vegetables: but it was run to ruin and high weeds, and shewed that its owner had been long dead. I suppose he died soon after the date of his paper; for, I observed, that many prior dates had been struck out; and had he lived after the year 1701, he would, in all probability, have razed that likewise, and set down 1702. Some sudden sickness must have seized him; and perhaps, when he found himself sinking, he laid himself out naked on the wooden couch where I found his skeleton. I can no otherwise account for his having no kind of covering over him. As to his bones being so clean, that to be sure was performed by the ants. I took notice of many nests here of the larger ants, in holes under the roots of great trees.
[Page 314]
That the pismires are the best preparers of a skeleton is not only certain from the account the missionaries give of the coming on of the ants in Pegu; when in one night's time, the vast swarms of them that approach, reduce every human creature they can fasten on to clean bones; which makes the people set fire to their habitations, when they have notice given them by a kind of small monkey they keep for the purpose of the motion of this terrible enemy: but it is plain from what I have often experimented.When I want to make a skeleton of any small animal, I put the dead creature in a box with holes in it among the ants, in their habitations, or nests, or in such parts of the house as a whole tribe will often march to, through several rooms, in one track or certain road, to eat sugar or sweatmeats they have discovered, and then in two or three days, they will perform what the finest knife cannot execute. The big ants which are larger than a common house fly, and are seldom less than six thousand in a nest, will clear the bones of a rat in half a night's time.There was a pretty little wooden summer-house in the centre of the garden, and in it had been in pots some curious plants and flowers. Here were various tools, and many instruments of gardening. It appeared from[Page 315]
them, and the great variety of things in the ground, that Mr. Orton must have used himself to hard labour, and found great pleasure in his improvements and productions. There was a deal of art and ingenuity to be traced in the wild wilderness the garden was grown into. It was plain from a book, called the Carthusian gardener, which lay on a table in the summer-house, that he had made that business his study. Round this summer-house were the remains of many hives on benches, but the bees were all gone, and the stock ruined.54.149 All these things, and the place, set me a thinking, and soon suggested to my fancy, that in my condition, I could not do better than succeed Mr. Orton on the premisses; but, without turning hermit. Here is (I said) a pretty small thatched mansion, that might easily be enlarged, if more rooms were wanting; and a garden, which labour would soon restore to its usefulness and beauty, and make it produce the best vegetables in plenty. Here is fish in the waters, fowl of every kind, and deer on the mountains. Here are goats in great herds, for milk, for kids, and when cut, for excellent venison. Here is the finest water, and by getting bees, as Mr. Orton had, meath may be made that will be equal to the best foreign wine. As to the situation, it is most delightful. Nothing[Page 316]
can be more charming than these shores and breaking waters, the rocky precipices and the woody hills, which surround this little region. What then should hinder but that I here sit down, and put an end to my adventures; as the few things that are wanting may be had at the next town, and a stock for years be in a few days secured? The man I am looking for may never be found; and if I should meet with him, his circumstances and temper may be changed: then, as to the world, I know not how to deal in any kind of business; and to live on the small fortune in my possession, must reduce me to poverty very soon. Here then it is good for me to reside, and make myself as happy as I can, if it be not in my power to be as happy as I would. I have two lads with me, who are active, useful young men, willing to work, and pleased to stay wherever I am; and if I can commence a matrimonial relation with some sensible, good-humoured, dear delightful girl of the mountains, and persuade her to be the chearful partner of my still life, nature and reason will create the highest scenes of felicity, and we shall live as it were in the suburbs of heaven. My lads too may pick up among the hills, upon scripture principles, two bouncing females: and a state will in a little time be formed. This is fine. For[Page 317]
once in my life I am fortunate. And suppose, this partner I want in my solitude could be Miss Melmoth, one of the wisest and most discreet of women; a thinking bloom, and good-humour itself in a human figure; then indeed I must be happy in this silent, romantic station. This spot of earth would then have all the felicities. -Resolved. Conclusum est contra Manicheos, said the great St. Austin, and with a thump of his fist, he cracked the table.55.150 Thus was my head employed, while I smoaked a pipe after supper, and I determined to return to Orton's mansion, after I had found a way out of Stanemore: but the previous question was, how I should get out of the place I was in, without going back, as there appeared no passage onwards. I tried every angle the next morning, to no purpose, and in vain attempted some hills that were too steep for the horses. Down then again I went to the bottom of the black and narrow glin afore-mentioned, and with lights observed the rumbling deep river. It appeared more frightful than the first time I saw it, and there was no venturing into it. This troubled me not a little, as the water was not above eight yards broad, and there was an ascending glin on the other side of it, that appeared to rise into a fine woody country. It was not half the length of that we[Page 318]
had descended, nor near so steep; it began to widen at the distance of a hundred yards from the water, so as to shew, at the summit, a fine plain encompassed with a sweep of forest. The view in contrast was quite charming.For some time I stood in this perplexed condition by the water-side, and could not tell what to do, when one of the lads came running to me, to let me know, that as he carefully examined the sides of the glin we came down, he discovered to the left, about fourscore yards above the river, a pass wide enough for one horse to go through, and he believed it was a way out. This was reviving news, and upon going into it, I found that it went straight on among the mountains, like a rent, or open crack, for three hundred yards, and then turned to the left for about fifty more, when it winded a little, and began to extend wider and wider every yard, till it brought us by several turnings to the beginning of a fine valley, where we again found the river we had seen in the bottom of the deep glin, and perceived that it ended in a great water, and went off in some subterranean way. The mountains were almost close to this fine water, on either hand, for near half a mile, and made a delightful rural[Page 319]
scene. We could see the river, as we looked up it, come tumbling on for a great way between the steep rocky precipices; and the broad bright lake it formed between vast frowning mountains, with wood and lawns in it, at the end of the vale, were altogether a view most charming. This made me more highly value Orton-Lodge.56.151 There is a cave there likewise that adds great beauty to the place, and in charms and wonders, exceeds the grot of Tunis, (a few miles east of Carthage, directly under Cape-Bonn, formerly called the promontory of Mercury), where Æneas sheltered after the storm (25.) 152 ; and St. Donat's Cave in Glamorganshire,[Page 320]
which is much more beautiful,[Page 321]
than the African grot described in the first Æneid. (26.) 153
[Page 322]
The cave in Stanemore is in the bottom of a perpendicular mountain of a vast height, the east side of the lake, and four yards from the shoar. The entrance is a grand sweep, high and broad as the grot, that is, in breadth 52 feet, in height 59. It is an hundred and forty seven feet long. The stone of it is extremely beautiful; of a yellow and reddish colour, bright and glittering, and beautifully variegated with arched and undulated veins of various tinges. I broke off a piece of it, and found it a congeries of plates of spar, stained with a fine mixture of colours. It is a species of the alabaster, called Marmor Onychites, on account of its tabulated zones, resembling those of the Onyx, and is very little inferior to the Ægyptian alabaster. This Stanemore stone is far beyond the Cornish and Derbyshire alabaster. The caverns there are but incrusted with a sparry substance, as I have found upon various examinations; and,[Page 323]
as is evident to every eye that sees the workmen making the elegant vases and chimney-columns we have of the alabaster of those counties: whereas in Stanemore, this alabaster consists of strata of sparry substance, tho' somewhat coarser than this kind of Ægyptian stone.The top of the cave is a bold arch, finished beyond all that art could do, and the floor as smooth as it is possible to make the stone. At the far end of the grot, there are a dozen rows of seats like benches, that rise one above another. The uppermost will hold but two people: on each of the others a dozen may sit with ease: they make the place look as if it was the assembly room, or council chamber of the water-nymphs. There was no water dropping from the roof of this cave; but in a thousand places, where moss had agreeably covered the walls, it crept through the sides, and formed streams that ran softly over the ground, and weared it smooth. It brought to my remembrance some very poetical lines in Lucretius:

-Noctivagi Sylvestria templa tenebantNympharum, quibus exibant humore fluentaLubrica, proluvie larga lavere humida Saxa,Humida Saxa super viridi stillantia muscoEt partim plano scatere atque erumpere campo.



And then by night they took their rest in caves,Where little streams roul on with silent waves;[Page 324]

They bubble thro' the stones, and softly creep,As fearful to disturb the nymphs that sleep.The moss spread o'er the marbles, seems to weep.
This was exactly the case of the water in this fine cave. In the lowest harmony, it gently fell over the slanting floor, and as Oldham has it-

Away the streams did with such softness creep,As 'twere by their own murmurs lull'd asleep.


57.154 155 Such was the delightful spot I at last discovered, when I thought I was come to the ne plus ultra, that is, had gone on till I could go no farther; and now seeing how my way lay, I departed from Orton-Lodge betimes the next morning, leaving my lad O Fin to keep possession of the place till I returned, and with the other boy went thro' the lawns in the wood I have mentioned at the end of the vale. This brought me to a range of mountains most frightful to behold, and to the top of them, with great toil, we made a shift to climb, and from thence descended through many perils to a bottom between the hills we had come down, and[Page 325]
some mountains that stood at a small distance from them. This low ground trended north and north-west for an hour, and then turned north-east for three hours more, a very bad way; stony and wet, and some stiff pieces of road: but the bottoms brought us at last into a large and spacious plain, that was surrounded with hills, whose tops and sides were covered with antient trees and lofty groves, and some mountains whose heads were above the clouds. Flowers and clover, and other herbs, adorned the ground, and it was watered with many never-drying streams. The plain seemed a vast amphitheatre, by nature formed; and variety and disposition refreshed the eyes whatever way they turned.In the very center of this ground, I found a house and gardens that charmed me very much. The mansion had a rusticity and wildness in its aspect, beyond any thing I had seen, and looked like a mass of materials jumbled together without order or design. There was no appearance of rule in any part, and where a kind of proportion was to be seen, it seemed as a start into truth, by the inadvertent head of blind chance. It was the most gothick, whimsical, four-fronted thing, without, that ever my eyes beheld; and within, the most convenient, comfortable dwelling I have seen.
[Page 326]
156 This edifice, which looks more like a small gothic cathedral, than a house, stands in the middle of large gardens, which are not only very fine, but uncommon, and different from all the gardens I have been in. There is no more rule observed in them, than in the house; but the plantations of trees, and plots of flowers, the raised hills, the artificial vallies, the streams that water these vales, and the large pieces of water, and lakes, they have brought in, and formed, are inexpressibly charming and fine. Wild and natural they seem, and are a beautiful imitation of the most beautiful scenes of nature. The wilderness, the openings, the parterres, the gardens, the streams, the lakes, the cascades, the valleys and the rising grounds, in the most various disposition, and as if art had little, or no hand in the designs, have an admirable effect upon the eye.The passages from valley to valley, between the hills they have made, are not by formal straight walks, but by windings in various ways, which are decorated with little grotto's, and diversified in the manner of laying out the ground: the streams and canals sometimes serpent, and sometimes spread away. Rocks artfully placed, seem to push the waters off, and on the banks are seeming wild productions of flowers. As the hills and risings are sprinkled with flowery trees,[Page 327]
so are these banks with all the sweets that grow. Small boats are on the running streams, and over them in many places, are winding bridges of wood, most ingeniously and finely made. These streams which they have from the mountains, supply the larger pieces of water; and in the largest of those lakes they had raised a rock, in the most natural manner. On this is a summer-house of great beauty. It is the reverse of the mansion, and has every charm that pure architecture could give it. It is large enough for a small family.58.157 When I came up to this seat, which the owners of it call Ulubræ, some gentlemen, who were in the gardens, saw me, and saved me the trouble of asking admission, by inviting me in with the greatest civility; but they seemed under a vast surprize at my arrival; and much more so, when I gave them an account of the way I had travelled. It appeared almost incredible. They had not a notion of such a journey. They told me I was in Yorkshire now, and had been so, when I ascended the high mountains that are some miles behind the hills that surround their house; but they did not imagine there was any travelling over those mountains, and the alps upon alps beyond them, to Brugh under Stanemore. The way (they said) was very bad from their house to Eggleston,[Page 328]
or Bowes, on account of hills, waters, and wet bottoms; it was worse to travel northward to Bishoprick; and scarce passable to the north east to Cumberland: -What then must it be to journey as I had done over the northern fells of Westmorland, and the bad part of Yorkshire-Stanemore I had passed.It was a terrible way (I replied), and what I often despaired of coming through, even at the hazard of my life. Frequently we were locked in by chains of precipices, and thought we should never find a pass: some of the mountains were so steep, that it was with the greatest difficulty we could lead the horses up and down them: and many rivers were so rapid, and rocky at bottom, that we were often in danger of being lost: beside, if fortune had not conducted us to the habitations of people we little expected to find, we might have perished for want of food, as my servant could not bring from Brugh provisions sufficient for so long and uncertain a way. All these difficulties I saw very soon; in less than a day's ride to the north from the Bell on the southern-edge of Stanemore; a little lone public-house, that lies half way the turnpike-road, on the left hand, as the traveller goes from Bowes to Brugh, Penrith, and Carlisle: but friendship and curiosity were too many for all the obstacles in the way; and in hopes of finding a beloved[Page 329]
friend, who lives somewhere towards the northern edge of Yorkshire, or Westmorland, or on the neighbouring confines of Bishoprick, or Cumberland; and that I might see a part of England, which even the borderers on it are strangers to, and of which Camden had not an idea (27) 158 ; I went on, and have had success thus far. The journey has been worth my pains. I have beheld the most delightful scenes, and met with very extraordinary things: and should I find my friend at last, my labours will be highly rewarded indeed.The gentlemen I was talking to, seemed to wonder very much at me and my discourse; and as the rest of the society by this time came into the parlour, they introduced me to them, and then related what I had[Page 330]
said. They all allowed it was very extraordinary, and requested I would oblige them with some particulars that occurred. I did immediately. I told them, among other things, of my reception at Burcot-Lodge- and the skeleton of John Orton which I found in the cottage on the side of a woody hill: I let them know the goods and conveniencies I saw there, and that I was so pleased with the beauties of the place, the little mansion, the once fine gardens, and the useful things on the premisses, that I intended to return to it, and make it my summer retreat: that I had left a man there to that purpose, who was at work in the garden, and expected to be back in a month's time, with such things as were wanting to make it an agreeable and comfortable little country-house.The philosophers wondered not a little at what they heard. If they were surprized at seeing me as a traveller in such a place, they were much more astonished at my relation. They could not enough admire Mrs. Burcot and Mrs. Fletcher. The history of the penitent Orton, they thought very strange. They told me they were glad I had a thought of making Orton-Lodge a summer retreat, and hoped it would occasion my calling upon them many times: that I should always be heartily welcome to their house, and might with less difficulty go backwards and forwards,[Page 331]
as their lodge was at my service, whenever I was pleased to do them the favor to call. This was civil, and I returned them the thanks they deserved.Here dinner was brought in, and with these gentlemen I sat down to several excellent dishes. There was the best of every kind of meat and drink, and it was served up in the most elegant manner: their wine in particular was old and generous, and they gave it freely. We took a chearful glass after dinner, and laughed a couple of hours away in a delightful manner. They were quite polite, friendly and obliging; and I soon found, in conversing with them, that they were men of great reading, and greater abilities. Philosophy had not saddened their tempers. They were as lively companions, as they were wise and learned men.These gentlemen are twenty in number, men of fortune, who had agreed to live together, on the plan of a college described by Mr. Evelyn in his letter to Mr. Boyle * 159 ; but, with this difference, that they have no chaplain, may rise when they please, go and come as they think fit, and are not obliged to cultivate every one his garden. Every member lays down a hundred pounds on the first day of the year, and out of that fund they live,[Page 332]
pay their servants, keep their horses, and purchase every thing the society requires. What is wanting at home, this stock produces, and is to be expended only at Ulubræ, for every thing necessary and comfortable, except raiment and horses. When they are abroad, it is at a plus-expence.I call these gentlemen philosophers, because, exclusive of their good morals, they devote the principal part of their time to natural philosophy and mathematicks, and had, when I first saw them, made a great number of fine experiments and observations in the works of nature, tho' they had not been a society for more than four years. They make records of every thing extraordinary which come within their cognisance, and register every experiment and observation. I saw several fine things in their transactions, and among them a most ingenious and new method of determining expeditiously the tangents of curve lines; which you know, mathematical reader, is a very prolix calculus, in the common way: and as the determination of the tangents of curves is of the greatest use, because such determinations exhibit the quadratures of curvilinear spaces, an easy method in doing the thing, is a promotion of geometry in the best manner. The rule is this.
[Page 333]

59.160 Suppose B D E the curve, B C the abcissa=x, C D the ordinate=y, A B the tangent line=t, and the nature of the curve be such, that the greatest power of y ordinate be on one side of the equation; then y3=-x3-xxy+xyy-a3+aay-aax+axx-ayy: but if the greatest power of y be wanting, the terms must be put =0.Then make a fraction and numerator; the numerator, by taking all the terms, wherein the known quantity is, with all their signs; and if the known quantity be of one dimension, to prefix unity, and of two, 2, if of three, 3, and you will have -3a3+2aay-2aax+axx-ayy:The fraction, by assuming the terms wherein the abscissa x occurs, and retaining the signs, and if the quantity x be of one dimension, to prefix unity, as above, etc, etc; and then it will be -3x3-2xxy+xyy-aax+2axx:[Page 334]
then diminish each of these by x, and the denominator will be -3xx-2xy+yy-aa+2ax.This fraction is equal to A B, and therefore t is In this easy way may the tangents of all geometrical curves be exhibited; and I add, by the same method, if you are skilful, may the tangents of infinite mechanical curves be determined. - Many other fine things, in the mathematical way, I looked over in the journal of these gentlemen. I likewise saw them perform several extraordinary experiments.60.161 They make all the mathematical instruments they use, and have brought the microscope in particular, to greater perfection than I have elsewhere seen it. They have them of all kinds, of one and more hemispherules, and from the invented spherule of Cardinal de Medicis, not exceeding the smallest pearl placed in a tube, to the largest that can be used. They had improved the double reflecting microscope, much farther than Marshal's is by Culpepper and Scarlet, and made several good alterations in the solar or camera obscura microscope; and in the catoptric microscope, which is made on the model of the Newtonian telescope.
[Page 335]

61.162 In one of their best double reflecting optical instruments, I had a better view of the variety and true mixture of colours than ever I saw before. The origins and mixtures were finely visible. In a common green ribbon, the yellow, the light red and a blue, appeared distinct and very plain: the lively green was a yellow and blue: in a sea green, more blue than yellow: the yellow was a light red and a pellucid white: All the phœnomena of colours were here to be found out.62.163 In this instrument, the finest point of a needle appeared more blunt and unequal, and more like a broken nail, than I had before seen it-the finest edge of a razor was like the back of a dog, with the hair up:- the finest paper, was great hairs, cavities, and inequalities-and the smoothest plate of glass, was very rough, full of cracks, fissures and inequalities. Very different, indeed, are the things finished by human art, from the things finished by the hand of nature. The points, the edges, the polish, the angles, every thing that nature produces, appear in the instrument in a perfection that astonishes the beholder.63.164 In the views I here took of the vegetable world, with my eye thus armed, I saw many extraordinary things I had never observed before. I took notice, in particular,[Page 336]
that a sage leaf is covered with a kind of cobweb, in which swarms of little active creatures, with terrible horns and piercing eyes, are busily employed: a mulberry leaf was an amazing flexus or net-work: we can see but 9 ribs on the sigillum Solomonis; whereas my armed eye perceived here 74: 165 in a nettle I observed its whole surface covered over with needles of the most perfect polish, every one of which had three points, (points very different from our finest points, not flat, but to perfection sharp); and that these needles rested on a base, which was a bag of a flexible substance, in form of a wild cucumber, and filled with a sharp, poisonous liquor: this is discharged at the extremity of every point of the needles that cover the surface of the nettle: from a hole visible in every point the poison is thrown out, and excites a sense of pain; and a heat arises as the blood flows more copiously to the wounded part: By pressing with my finger the extremity of the prickles, the bag of poison fell; and on taking off the finger, it swelled again. -What a piece of workmanship is here in a nettle! Wonderful are thy works, O Lord God Almighty!166 A leaf of sorrel in this microscope exhibited to my eye oblong, rough and straight atoms, sharp as needles, and from thence the tongue is twinged. In a bud cut away with[Page 337]
a fine needle from a steeped seed of a french bean, I saw the intire plant; and in an almond so cut away, the perfect tree. Many other wonderful things I observed of the vegetable kingdom, in the microscopes of these gentlemen.64.167 As to the animal kingdom, my observations on it, in the optical instruments at Ulubræ, were so many, that I could fill a volume with the things I saw: but, as I have little room or time to spare, I shall only mention two or three. -In the double reflecting telescope, a louse and a flea were put; which are creatures that hate each other as much as spiders do, and fight to death when they meet. 168 The flea appeared first in the box, and as he was magnified very greatly, he looked like a locust without wings; with a roundish body, that is obtuse at the end, and the breast covered with an armature of a triangular figure; the head small in proportion to its body, but the eyes large, red, and very fierce; his six legs were long, robust, and made for leaping; the antennæ short, but firm and sharp; its tail was scaly, and full of stings, and its mouth pointed into active pincers: his colour was a deep purple.169 The louse in white was next brought on, and had a well-shaped, oblong indented body: his six legs were short, made for walking[Page 338]
and running, and each of them armed at the extremity with two terrible claws: the head was large, and the eyes very small and black: its horns were short and jointed, and could be thrust forward with a spring. Its snout was pointed, and opened, contracted, and penetrated, in a wonderful manner.65.170 The first that was brought on the stage was the flea, and to shew us what an active one he was, he sprung and bounced at a strange rate: the velocity of his motions in leaping, were astonishing; and sometimes, he would tumble over and over in a wanton way: but the moment the louse appeared, he stood stock still, gathered himself up, and fixed his flashing eyes on his foe. The gallant louse did with a frown for some time behold him, and then crouching down, began very softly to move towards him, when the flea gave a leap on his enemy, and with his dangerous tail and pinching mouth, began the battle with great fury: but the louse soon made him quit his hold, by hurting him with his claws, and wounding him with his sharp snout. This made the flea skip to the other side of the box, and they both kept at a distance for near a minute, looking with great indignation at each other, and offering several times to advance. The louse did it at last in a race, and then the flea flew at him, which produced a battle as terrible as[Page 339]
ever was fought by two wild beasts. Every part of their bodies were in most violent motion, and sometimes the flea was uppermost, but more frequently the louse. They did bite, and thrust, and claw one another most furiously, and the consequence of the dreadful engagement was, that the flea expired, and the louse remained victor in the box: but he was so much wounded, that he could scarce walk. -This battle was to me a very surprizing thing, as each of them was magnified to the size of two feet: But considering what specs or atoms of animated matter they were, it was astonishing to reflexion to behold the amazing mechanism of these two minute things, which appeared in their exertions during the fray. It was still more strange to see the aversion these small creatures had to each other, the passions that worked in their little breasts, and the judgement they shewed in their endeavours to destroy one another. It is indeed a wonderful affair: nor was it the least part of my admiration to see through the extraordinary transparencies of the louse, the violent circulation of the blood in its heart. This was as plane to my eye, as red liquor forced by a pump in several experiments through circulating glass pipes. -As to the dead flea, it was opened, and by the camera obscura or solar microscope, (which magnifies the picture of[Page 340]
such a body as a flea, to eight feet) (28) 171 we saw the intestines distinguished and arranged in a manner that cannot be enough admired. It was full of eggs, and in every egg were many half-formed young ones.66.172 The water aranea, or great water spider, was next put in, and made a wonderful appearance in his greatly magnified state. It is the largest of the spider kind, except the native of Apulia, called the Tarantula, and[Page 341]
is furnished at the head with a hard black forceps, which resembles that of the Apulian araneus: the colour of its oval body is a blueish black, and has a transverse line and two spots hollowed in it: its eight legs are very long, the joints large, and the little bones of the feet have different articulations: it was armed with bristles like a boar, and had claws very black, not unlike an eagle: it had eight eyes, and six of them were disposed in form of a half moon on the forehead; the other two were on the crown of the head; one to the left, the other to the right: This disposition affords light to the whole body, and as these eyes are well furnished with crystalline humours, they are sharp-sighted beyond all creatures, and so nimbly hunt down flies: the mouth was full of teeth, and they looked like short thick hairs.In opposition to this amphibious creature, which walks on the mud at the bottom of standing waters, as well as on the banks, the silvery-green bodied spider was put into the box, which is one of the class that lives in the woods, where it squats down on the branches of trees, and throws four of its legs forward, and four backward, extending them straight along the bough; but the great water aranea, with his terrible weapon, the black forceps, in a minute destroyed[Page 342]
it, and we took the dead body out, to put in its place the red and yellow spider, which is a larger and stronger kind: this made a battle for two minutes, and hurt his foe: but he could not stand it longer: he expired at the victor's feet.173 These things were a fine entertainment to me, as I had not before seen a solar, catoptric, or improved double-reflecting microscope. I had now a nearer view of the skilful works of the supreme Artificer. With admiration I beheld the magnified objects-the wonderful arrangement of the intestines of a flea-the motion and ebullition of the blood of a louse-their forms-the various spiders, so astonishingly framed-the gnat, that elephant in so small a miniature-the amazing form of the ant-the astonishing claws and beautiful wings of a fly; the bones, nerves, arteries, veins, and moving blood in this very minute animal---the wonderful bee, its claws, its colours, and distinct rows of teeth, with which it sips the flowers, and carries the honey home in its stomach, but brings the wax externally on its thighs-and a thousand other things which manifest a Creator. In every object I viewed in the optical instruments, my eyes beheld one wise Being and supreme cause of all things. Every insect, herb, and spire of grass, declare eternal power and godhead.[Page 343]
Not only the speech and language of the heavens, but of all the works and parts of nature is gone out into all the earth, and to the ends of the world; loudly proclaiming, that thou, O God, art Lord alone: Thou hast made heaven, the heaven of heavens, and all their hosts; the earth, and all things that are therein; therefore be thou our Lord God for ever and ever.67.174 The library belonging to these gentlemen is a very fine one, and contains many thousand volumes; but is much more valuable for the intrinsick merit, than the number of the books: and as to antient manuscripts, there is a large store of great value: they had likewise many other curious monuments of antiquity; statues, paintings, medals, and coins, silver, gold, and brass. To describe those fine things would require a volume. Among the books, I saw the editions of the old authors, by the famous printers of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries; editions greatly prized and sought after by most of the learned; but these gentlemen did not value them so much as the editions of the classicks, that have been published within this last century; especially the quarto editions done in Holland. They shewed me many errors in the Greek authors by the Stephens: and as to Plantin, exclusive of his negligence, in several places, his Italic character[Page 344]
they thought far inferior to the Roman, in respect of beauty. All this was true: and it is most certain, that the best corrected books are the best editions of the classicks. They are the best helps for our understanding them. There is no reason then for laying out so much money for the old editions, when in reality the modern ones are better.68.175 One of the books in this library, which I chanced to take into my hand was the famous Vindiciæ contra Tyrannos, which came out in Latin and French in 1579, under the name of Stephanus Junius Brutus, and is a defence of liberty against tyrants. -This treatise proves, in the first place, that subjects are not bound to obey princes, if they command that which is against the law of God; as the worship of a consecrated wafer, and the theology of St. Athanasius, marionalatry, the demonalatry , and all the diabolism of popery;---2dly, That it is lawful to resist a prince, who, like James the Second, endeavours to ruin the true church, and make the superstition of Rome the religion of the land;---3dly, That it is lawful to resist a prince, when he oppresses and strives to ruin a state; as when Charles the First would exercise a power contrary to the interest of his people, contrary likewise to that of the[Page 345]
protestant religion (29.) 176 ; and when James the Second began his tyranny, by dispensing with the penal statute of 25 Car. 2. in the[Page 346]
case of Sir Edward Hales, notwithstanding the true religion, the honour of Almighty God, the safety of the government, and the[Page 347]
public good and peace of the nation depend upon this act of 25 Car. 2.---and 4thly, That neighbour princes or states may be, or[Page 348]
are bound by law, to give succours to the subjects of other princes, afflicted for the cause of true religion, or oppressed by manifest[Page 349]
tyranny. These truths are finely proved in this extraordinary book. The excellent author evinces, that justice requires,[Page 350]
that tyrants and destroyers of the commonwealth be compelled to reason. Charity challenges the right of relieving and restoring the oppressed. Those that make no account of these things, do as much as in them lies to drive piety, justice, and charity out of this world, that they may never more be heard of.177 I asked one of these gentlemen, if he knew who was the author of this book; for it was ascribed to various men:---he told me, that the learned Hubert Languet was the reputed author, as we find in De la Mare's elogium upon him; but De la Mare was misinformed by Legoux. The great Du Plessis (30.) 178 was the author. D'Aubigne[Page 351]

[Page 352]

[Page 353]

[Page 354]

[Page 355]

[Page 356]

[Page 357]
(31) 179 , whose word is sterling, affirms it. See here (Mr. Seymour said) the 2d volume of D' Aubigne's history, book 2. ch. 2. p. 108, il paroissoit un autre livre qui s'appelloit[Page 358]
Junius, on défense contre les tyrans, fait par M. Du Plessis, renommé pour plusieurs excellens livres. ---And, (tom. I. l. 2. ch. 15. pag. 91.) D'Aubigné dits, que M. du Plessis lui a avoué qu'il en estoit l'auteur.69.180 Another extraordinary book I saw in this library, was the famous piece de libertate ecclesiastica, written against the papal usurpations, at the time his holiness, Camille Borghense, commonly called Paul V, had the memorable contest with the Venetians; and upon enquiring, who was the author of this scarce and valuable work; that was superior even to Father Paul's book upon the same subject, in defence of the liberties of mankind; Mr. Trenchard the president of the society, shewed me Cappel's assertion of the true Faith against Rosweius the jesuit. And in it the following passage, pag. 17. -In ecclesiastica antiquitate quam non esset Tyro Casaubonus, docuit A. D. 1607. libro singulari de libertate ecclesiastica, cujus jam paginæ 264. typis erant editæ, cum rex Henricus IV. Compositis jam Venetorum cum pontifice Romano controversiis, vetuit ultra progredi, et hoc ipsum quod fuerat inchoatum, supprimi voluit, ut ejus pauca nunc extent exemplaria. ---And in the same book, I saw some manuscript[Page 359]
references to Casaubon's lettres, p. 628. 632, and 647. edit. Hag.---and to one place in Scaliger's letters, p. 345. ed. 1627. - Several places I turned to, and saw that Casaubon hinted to his friends, that he was the author of the book De Ecclesiastica Antiquitate: and that Scaliger affirmed it (32.) 181 ---[Page 360]
The words---Vetuit ultra progredi, et hoc ipsum quod fuerat inchoatum supprimi voluit--- accounts for this being published imperfect; which all that see it wonder at.
[Page 361]

70.Many other extraordinary books and manuscripts I saw in this library, and a great number of fine curiosities; but I can only mention one particular more. Engraven on a beautiful Cornelian, I saw the Roman god of bounds, with these words, Concedo nulli: and one of the gentlemen asked me, what I supposed the meaning of this design? The emblem (I answered) was a very just one, and in my opinion meant, that truth must never be given up. That (it was replied) was not the meaning of it, tho' my thought was not unjust. The design is to put one in mind of death, of which terminus is the justest[Page 362]
emblem; and he says, Concedo nulli, I favour none, I suffer none to pass the limit. There is (continued the gentleman) a little curious history depends on this. Here is a gold medallion, on one side of which you see the image of the great Erasmus, and on the other this fancy; which he always wore in a ring, and from thence I had the medallion struck. Erasmus asked the famous Carvajal, the Spanish cordelier, (just as I did you) what the meaning of this ring was. Carvajal, who had had some contests with Erasmus, and hated him greatly, said it owed its being, without all peradventure, to the pride of Erasmus, and meant, that he would never yield, right or wrong, to any one in the republic of letters. Erasmus answered, that his explication was quite wrong, and that, on the contrary, he used the device, to kill his pride, and put him in mind of death, which suffers not the greatest men to pass the short limit of time allotted them. This pleased me much, and I resolved to get the fancy on a cornelian for a seal.71.182 Another extraordinary thing these gentlemen shewed me was a hole leading to some wonderful caverns in the side of a mountain, about a mile to the north of their house. It resembles at the entrance, Penpark-hole,[Page 363]
in Gloucestershire (33) 183 , within three miles of Bristol; but with this difference, that Penpark-hole was once a lead ore pit, and one is let down by ropes through two tunnels, to the chamber; whereas the entrance of the place I am speaking of is the work of nature, a steep and narrow descent of twenty-three yards, which I went down by having a rope under my arm, and setting my hands and feet against the sides of the[Page 364]
passage, till I came to a flat rough rock, which opened 2 yards and a half one way, and 4 yards the other way. This little cavern was two yards high. We went from it into a more easy sloping way, which brought us downward for thirteen yards, till we came to another cavern, that was six yards long, and four and a half broad. Here we found a perpendicular tunnel, two yards wide, and sixty-seven yards deep; but where it went to, and what caused the noise below, the gentlemen who came thus far with me, could not tell; for they had never ventured into it, nor could they persuade any of their people to be let down to the bottom, tho' they had found by the lead that there was hard ground below. I will then, (I said) explore this subterranean realm, if you will let me and my lad down, with proper conveniences for an enquiry of the kind, and I dare say I will give you a good account of the region below. This (they answered) was not safe for me to do. I might perish many ways. The damps and vapours might kill me at once; or my lights by them might be put out, or kindle the vapour of the place below. But to this I said, that I was sure the noise we heard at the bottom was some running water, and wherever that was in the caverns of the earth, the air must be[Page 365]
pure and good. So Mr. Boyle says in his general history of the air; and so I have often found it in my descents to the deepest mines. -As you please then; (the gentlemen replied): you shall have every thing you can desire, and be let down very safely, however you may fare when you get to the ground: and when you want to come up, pull the packthread you have in your hand, that will be tied to a bell at the top of the tunnel, and you shall be immediately drawn up again. These things being agreed, they let me down in a proper basket the next morning at eight o'clock, with a lighted torch in my hand, and soon after my man Ralph followed with every thing I had required. I was more than half an hour going down, for the rope was given like a jack line from the engine it came from. I saw several dismal lateral holes by the way; but no mischief or inconvenience did I meet with in my passage to the ground.184 When I came to the bottom, I found I was in a chamber of a great extent, and tho' 103 yards from the day, breathed as free as if I had been above ground. A little river made a noise in its fall from a high rock, within four yards of the spot I landed on, and ran with impetuosity in a rough channel I knew not where. The water was not deep, as we found with our poles, and but three yards broad, and therefore[Page 366]
we crossed it, at 100 yards from the fall, to get into a cavern that had an arched entrance, on the other side, within two yards of the stream. Our course to the crossing was due west, and then we went to the north, on passing the water, and walking up the second cave.In it we ascended for 79 yards, an easy rising way, and then came to a swallow, into which a river that ran towards us fell. Our course to this place was due north, but as the flood came from the west, we turned next to that point, and by the side of this water marched 50 yards. The cavern was so wide we could not see the walls, and the roof was of a vast height.At the end of the 50 yards, the river appeared due north again, and by its side we went for 10 more, till we came to another vast cavern, that was a steep ascending opening, down which the river very musically came. This place was so like Pool's-hole, that I might think myself in the Peak. It was just such another grand opening, up the inside of a mountain, and had not only the descending flood, but as many beautiful stalactical concretions on the rising way; which formed the most beautiful pillars, walls, and figures of the finest carved work; but in this it differed from Pools-hole, that the ascending[Page 367]
opening in Richmondshire is much wider; the rough, open steep, much higher to the roof; and this steep reaches to the summit of the vast hills, and ends in an opening in day. We came out this way on the top of an exceeding high mountain, after we had climbed from the bottom to the upper end 479 yards (34) 185 : add to this 229 yards, the way we had come from the bottom of the tunnel to the beginning of the watery steep, and our march through the[Page 368]
mountain, from the time we parted with the gentlemen, to our getting out at the top of it, was 708 yards.This was a laborious route, and at the hazard of our lives, many times, performed. Once, in particular, my lad Ralph fell into the river with his torch in the great ascent, and in striving to save his life, I lost the other light I carried in my hand. This reduced us to a state of the blackest darkness, and in that condition, we could not stir. It was a horrible scene. It chilled my blood, and curdled it in my veins: but I had a tinder-box, matches, and wax-candle, in my pocket, and soon recovered the desirable light; at which we lit other torches, and proceeded to ascend the rough and rocky steep, till we came to the fountain that made the descending flood. The opening upwards from that became very narrow, and the slant so great, that it was extremely difficult to go on; but as I could see the day at the end of it, I resolved to strive hard, and mount, if possible, these remaining 60 yards. In short, we did the work. As before related, we[Page 369]
came out this way, and from the dismal caverns of night ascended to a delightful plain; from which we again beheld the glorious sun, and had the finest points of view. It was by this time noon, and under the shade of some aged trees, that grew on the banks of a great lake, on the summit of this vast hill, I sat down to some bread and wine I had brought with me for relief. Never was repast more sweet. I was not only fatigued very much; but, had been in fear as to my ever climbing up, and knew not how to get down, when I had mounted two thirds of the way. The descent was a thousand times more dangerous than the going towards the top.72.186 When I had done, I walked about to see if there was any way down the mountain's sides, to go to Utubræ, from whence I came; but for miles it was a frightful perpendicular rock, next that place, and impossible for a goat to descend; and on the side that faced Bishoprick, and a fine country house and gardens, about a quarter of a mile off, in a delightful valley, that extended with all the beauties of wood and lawn, meadow and water, from the foot of the mountain I was on, the precipice here was a terrible way for a man to venture down; but it was possible to do it with a long pole, at[Page 370]
the hazard of his life, as the rocks projected in many places, and the side went sloping off; and therefore I resolved to descend. I could not think of going back the way I came; since I had got safe into day again, I thought it better to risk my limbs in the face of the sun, than perish as I might do in the black and dismal inside of those tremendous hills. Besides, the house in my view, might be perhaps the one I wanted. It was possible my friend Turner might live there.With art and caution then I began to descend, and so happily took every offered advantage of jutting rock and path in my way, that without any accident I got in safety down; tho' the perils were so great, that often I could not reach from rock to rock with my pole. In this case, I aimed the point of my pole at the spot I intended to light on, and clapped my feet close to it, when I went off in the air from the rock: the pole coming first to the place broke the fall, and then sliding gently down by it, I pitched on the spot I designed to go to, though six, seven, or eight fathom off, and the part of the rock below not more than a yard broad. It is a frightful piece of activity to a bystander; but the youths on the mountains of Ireland make nothing of it: they are as expert at this work as the Teneriff[Page 371]
men: from them I learned it; and made Ralph so perfect in the action, while he travelled with me, that he could go from rock to rock like a bird.187 When we came to the ground, I sent my man before me to the house, with my humble service to Mr. Harcourt the master of it, and to let him know, that I had travelled through the inside of one of the high mountains that surrounded his house, and on coming out of the top of it, had made the precipice next him my road to the valley he lived in; that I knew not which way to turn next, in order to go to Cumberland, and begged leave to dine with him, and receive his information. -This strange message, delivered by Ralph with much comic gravity, that gentleman could not tell what to make of; as I had ordered my young man not to explain himself, but still say, that we had travelled the inside of the mountain, and came down the precipice. This was so surprizing a thing to Mr. Harcourt and his daughter, that they walked out with some impatience to see this extraordinary traveller, and expressed no little amazement, when they came near me. After a salute, Mr. Harcourt told me he did not understand what my servant had said to him; nor could he comprehend how I arrived in this valley, as there was but one passage into it at the front[Page 372]
of his house; and my being on foot too, encreased the wonder of my appearing in the place: but whatever way I came, I was welcome to his house, and he would shew me the way in.My arrival here, Sir, (I replied) is to be sure very strange, and would be almost incredible to hear told by another person, of one that journeyed 229 yards deep, to the foundation of this Alp, on the other side of it, then ascended a hollow way, till he got out at the top, and came down a high and frightful precipice to the vale below: But here I am a proof of the fact. I will explain how it was done; and I began to relate every particular at large.But tell me, Sir, (Miss Harcourt said) if you please, why did you not return the way you came; since the other side of the mountain is impossible to descend, as you inform us, on account of its being a perpendicular steep; and that you must have hazarded your life a thousand times, in coming down the way you did with the pole? I tremble as I look at the place, and only with fancy's eye, see you on the descent. Beside, the gentlemen you left on the other side of the hill, will conclude you lost, and be very greatly troubled on the account.My reason, Madam, (I answering, said) for coming down this very dangerous way,[Page 373]
was, because I thought it, with all its perils, much safer than the inside road I had come. My activity, I had reason to think, was superior to the difficulties of the outward way, and if I should fall, it would be in the light of heaven, with a human habitation in view, that might afford me some relief, if I only broke my bones; but, if in descending the very steep and horrible caverns of the hill, which with the greatest difficulty I climbed up, I should happen to get a fall, as in all human probability I would, and break a limb in these most dismal cavities of eternal night, I must have perished in the most miserable manner, without a possibility of obtaining any relief. Nor is this all, madam. The thing that brought me here among the mountains of Richmondshire, was to find a gentleman of my acquaintance, and when I saw your house from the top of the mountain, I did not know but it might be his. I fansied it was, as the situation answered my friends description of the spot he lived on.And if it had been his, madam, it would have put an end to all my toils; for I am a wanderer upon the face of the earth, through the cruelty of a mother-in-law; and the unreasonableness of a rich father; who has forsaken me, because I will not submit to the declarations and decisions of weak and fallible men, in matters of pure revelation and[Page 374]
divine faith, and own the infallibility of the orthodox system. Because the assent of my mind could not go beyond the perception of my understanding, and I would not allow that the popular confession is the faith once delivered to the saints, therefore I was thrown off, and obliged to become the pilgrim you see before you.This history of a forlorn seemed stranger to the young lady and her father than even the account of my journey through the inside of a mountain, and down a precipice that a goat would scarce venture. They were both very greatly amazed at my relation, and Mr. Harcourt was going to ask me some questions, when one of his servants came to let him know that dinner was serving up, and by this put an end to our conversation. The master of the house brought me into a fine room, and I saw on the table an elegant dinner: there was likewise a grand sideboard, and several men servants attending: miss Harcourt sat at the head of the table, and at her right hand two young ladies, vastly handsome, whom I shall have occasion to mention hereafter in this journal: two ladies more were on the other side of her, pretty women, but no beauties; and next them sat three gentlemen; sensible, well-behaved men; one of them a master of musick, the other a master[Page 375]
languages, and the third a great painter; who were kept in the house on large salaries, to teach the young lady these things: Mr. Harcourt placed me by himself, and was not only extremely civil, but manifested a kind of fondness as if he was well pleased with my arrival. He and his daughter took great care of me, and treated me as if I had been a man of distinction rather than the poor pilgrim they saw me, with my staff in my hand. The young lady talked to me in a very pleasant manner, and as I saw the whole company were inclined to be very chearful, I clubbed as much as I could to promote good-humour, and encrease the festivity of the table. We laughed the afternoon away in a charming manner, and when we had done, we all went to walk in the gardens. Here the company soon separated, as the various beauties of the place inclined various minds to different things and parts. Some, pensive roamed in shady walks; some sat by playing fountains; and others went to gather fruits and flowers. I had the honour to walk with Miss Harcourt to a canal at some distance, and as we went, this young lady told me, she did not well understand me as to what I had said of religion being concerned in my becoming a traveller, and desired me to be a little more particular. That I will,[Page 376]
and immediately proceeded in the following manner.73.188 My father, madam, is a man of great learning, virtue and knowledge, but orthodox to the last degree, and sent me to the university on purpose to make me a theologer, that I might be an able defender of the Creed of St. Athanasius, and convince the poor people of the country he lived in, and in good time (he fondly hoped) the inhabitants of many other countries; that notwithstanding the symbol I have mentioned is what no human apprehension can comprehend, and the judgment hath nothing to act on in the consideration of it;-that there is nothing to be understood in that symbol, nor can a man form any determination of the matter therein contained;-yet they must believe this great and awful mystery: that three persons and Gods are only one person and God; and, on peril of eternal misery, they must confess that, Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, tho' three Beings, as distinct as any three things in the universe, yet are only one Being. This mystery I was to preach up in his church, (a church in a field, near his house, to which he had the right of presenting,) and enflame the people against reason, that traitor to God and religion, which our adversaries, the Christian deists, would make Lord and King in opposition to faith. I[Page 377]
was to tell my beloved, that reason is a carnal sensual devil, and that instead of hearkening to this tempter, they must assent to those heavenly propositions, which give wisdom without ideas, and certainty without knowledge. You must believe, my beloved, that none is before or after the other. - None is greater or less than another. The infidels call this an unintelligible piece of non-sense: but it is, my beloved, a very transcendent mystery. It does, we must own, stagger and astonish us, being a thing beyond our reach to comprehend; but, it must be believed, on peril of eternal misery, as I before observed: and it is easy to be believed, for this plain reason, (given by a very learned and pious bishop of our church) to wit, that it is too high to be by us comprehended. This was the opinion of that great prelate, Dr. Beveridge, in his Private Thoughts, p. 52. to which book I refer you, my beloved, for more of his admirable reasoning on this capital article, and farther observe to you, that not only this most pious bishop, and many other most excellent prelates were of this way of thinking; but all the most admirable divines have declared in their sermons, and other matchless writings, that the more incredible the Athanasian creed is, and the fuller of contradictions, the more honour we do to our God in believing it. It is the glory of orthodox Christians, that their faith is not[Page 378]
only contrary to the carnal mind, but even to the most exalted reason. In matters of faith, we must renounce our reason, even tho' it be the only thing that distinguishes us from the beasts, and makes us capable of any religion at all. No human arguments are to interfere in this victorious principle: the catholic faith is the reverse of rational religion, and except a man believe it faithfully, he must go into everlasting fire and brimstone (35) 189 .In this manner, madam, like a mad bigot, a flaming zealot, and a sublime believer, was I to preach to the people of Ireland, and be[Page 379]
an apostle for that faith which is an obedience to unreasonable commands: but unfortunately, for my father's design; and fortunately, for my soul; I was, on entring the university, put into the hands of a gentleman, who abhorred modern orthodoxy, and made the essential constitutive happiness and perfection of every intelligent being consist in the conformity of our mind to the moral rectitude of the Divine Nature. This excellent man convinced my understanding, that even faith in Christ is of an inferior nature to this: it is only the means to obtain it. Such a conformity and obedience of the heart and conscience to the will of God ought to be my religion, as it was the religion of our Saviour himself.Thus, madam, was I instructed by a master of arts, my private tutor, and when to his lessons I added my own careful examinations of the vulgar faith, and the mind of our Lord as I found it in the books, I was thoroughly satisfied, that an act of faith is an act of reason, and an act of reason an act of faith, in religious matters;-that our Lord was not the great God; nor a part of that compound, called the Triune-God; the miserable invention of divines; but, a more extraordinary messenger than the prophets under the law, chosen by the divine wisdom, to publish the will of God to mankind, and sent under the character of his son, and spiritual[Page 380]
ritual heir of his inheritance the church, to new form the ages, and fix such good principles in the minds of men, as would be productive of all righteousness in the conversation: that he was sent to destroy sin and the kingdom of Satan; and to bring the human race to a perfect obedience to the will of the Supreme Being.All this, madam, was as plain to me as the sun in summer's bright day; and therefore, instead of laying aside my understanding, and believing things without any rational ground or evidence at all;-instead of going into orders, to draw revealed conclusions from revealed propositions, and by a deep logic, make scripture consequences, that have no meaning in the words, for the faith of the people; I was so free and ingenuous as to let my father know, that of all things in the world I never would be a parson, since the character obliged me to swear and subscribe to articles I could not find in my bible; nor would I, as a layman, ever read, or join in the service of reading the tritheistic liturgy and offices he used in his family. I was determined, tho' I lost his favor and large fortune by the resolution; to live and die a Christian deist; confessing before men the personal unity and perfections of the true God, and the personal mediatorial office of Jesus Christ. As St. Paul mentained the personal unity and absolute supremacy of[Page 381]
the true God, and in his description of the Deity, did not tell the Athenians, that he was a Triune Being, to be considered under the notion of three persons, of three understandings and wills, in a co-ordinate triplicity of all divine attributes and perfections; but one individual personal Agent,-one great Spirit, or mind, self-existent, and omnipotent in wisdom and action-one Supreme Almighty Creator and Governor of the world,--- the God and Father of Jesus Christ; I shall therefore, in obedience to the apostle, and to the other inspired writers, believe in and worship the same God, the One God, the only true God, as our Lord says in Matthew and Mark;-through the alone mediation and intercession of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer and only begotten Son of God;- depending upon the effectual aid and assistance of the blessed Spirit, in hope of a glorious immortality. This is,-this shall be my religion, whatever I may feel from an antichristian tyranny, on account of the confession. -Tho' an outrage of uncharitable zeal should strip me of every worldly comfort, and reduce me to a want of bread. - If I should become a spectacle to men and angels by this faith, yet I will believe as Jesus Christ and his apostles have ordered the world to believe. -No unintelligible cant, or scholastic jargon for me. The Holy Ghost has in scripture expressed it sufficiently and[Page 382]
unexceptionably clear,---that there is One Supreme Independent First-Cause of all things, a Spirit, that is, One Spirit, One God: I am God, and there is none like me: I am God, and there is none else; beside Me; with Me; none but Me. -Thus does the Holy Ghost declare; and what signify the despicable, heretical declarations of the doctors, in respect of this?Then, as a test of Christianity, the same blessed Spirit adds,-that Jesus is the true Messiah, was sent from God to reveal his will for the salvation of man, and is the only Mediator betwixt God and man. Thus has the Holy Ghost regulated our faith and practice, and I think it incumbent on me to mind what he says, and flee the invented pieties of our theologers. ---I did so, and disobliged my father. I lost his favor intirely. He would take no farther notice of me, and I became as you see a wanderer.This discourse, delivered with my fire and action, amazed Miss Harcourt so greatly, that for some time after I had done, she could not speak, but continued looking with great earnestness at me. At last however she said, I am glad, Sir, it has been my fate to meet with you, and must, when there is more time, converse with you on this subject. My father and I have had some doubts as to the truth of the Athanasian creed; but he told me, he did not chuse to examine the[Page 383]
thing, as it had the sanction of ages, and was believed by the greatest divines in all nations. If it be wrong, let the churchmen answer for it. But this does not satisfy me; and since I have seen one that has forsaken all rather than live a disciple of Athanasius, after a thorough examination of the system; and that you have now said some things against it that shew the folly of believing it, and make it a faith the most preposterous and unreasonable, I am determined to enquire into the merit of it, and see if christians ought to acknowledge the supreme dominion and authority of God the Father; -that the Father is absolutely God, the great God in the absolute supreme sense by nature; and the Son, only a God by communication of divinity from the Father, that is, by having received from the Father, the Supreme Cause, his being, attributes, and power over the whole creation:---or, if they ought to ascribe supreme authority, and original independent absolute dominion to God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Ghost; three distinct supreme gods, and yet but one supreme God, as the church informs us in her famous creed, and thereby makes us swallow a contradiction, as I have often thought, and a doctrine against which a great number of texts can be produced. This I will examine. My reason shall be no longer silent in so important a case. If a[Page 384]
Trinity in unity of equal minds or gods is not to be proved by the inspired writings, the doctors preaching it, and by creed requiring it, will be no justifiable plea or excuse for me, I am sensible, in the great rising day. I had better, in such case, leave all as you have bravely done, were my father so orthodox and furious a bigot as to force me to be a religionist against my conscience. What I have to beg of you, Sir, (Miss Harcourt continued) is, that you will to-morrow, oblige me with your thoughts on the texts I have marked, as produced by orthodox divines for their mysterious religion. If you make me sensible that those texts do not prove the doctrine they are brought for, and of consequence, that the doctrine of the trinity as by them taught, is the work of uninspired writers, I shall renounce it to be sure. I will no longer mistake contradictions for mysteries. The schemes and inventions of men shall not pass with me for the revelations of God (36) 190 .
[Page 385]

74.191 Here Mr. Harcourt came up to us, and desired to know, (if it was a fair question) what we two had been talking so earnestly on; for it seemed at a distance to be something more than ordinary. I will tell you, Sir, his daughter replied, and immediately began to relate the whole conference, and her resolution. Your resolution (the father said) is excellent. You have not only my consent, but I recommend it to you as the noblest work you can employ any time on. For my part, Sir, (Mr. Harcourt continued, turning himself to me) I never liked this part of our protestant religion, and have often wished our public prayers had been more conformable to the simplicity of the gospel; that we had been contented with what our Master and the Holy Spirit delivered, and not made human compositions the standard of salvation: but since the church in her wisdom has thought it should be otherwise, I have submitted to her authority, and been silent on the doctrines she claims a right to determine; though some of them to me appear doubtful, and others repugnant to scripture: beside, my studies have been in other fields than that of controversy: mathematics and antiquities have employed my time, and I have neither taste nor capacity for that criticism which is necessary for the[Page 386]
examination of such points: greatly however do I honour those who have the ability and patience to go through the work, as I must own it is of the most importance, and that the orthodox faith is a sad thing, if the truth be, after all our Athanasian believing, that Christ is no more than God's instrument, as St. Peter and St. Paul name him; a successful teacher of wisdom, righteousness, sanctification, and redemption: and that God is to be owned and praised, as the true, chief, and original cause of all spiritual blessings, according to the counsel of his own will, his own good pleasure, purpose, etc. without partner or second person, to intreat and satisfy for us. If this be the case, may the Lord have mercy on our poor orthodox souls: and as it may be so, I honour you for enquiring into the matter, and especially for your good Spirit in prefering the things that are eternal, when what you thought truth could not be held with things temporal. I have (Mr. Harcourt continued) a very great esteem for you on this account, and if I can be of service to you, I will. He imagined I might want money, and if I did, he would lend me a hundred guineas, without interest, payable on my note of hand, when I could. He immediately took out of his pocket-book a bank note for that sum, and pressed me to[Page 387]
accept it. He likewise invited me to stay at his house, while he continued in the country, which would be for a month longer. He assured me also, that I might make it my residence after he left it, if I pleased: there would be two servants to attend me, and there was excellent mutton, and other things, for my table. Nor is this all; you shall have the key of my study.These offers astonished me, and I said, most generous Sir, I return you the thanks of a grateful heart, and will ever remember your goodness to me with that sense such uncommon kindness deserves, tho' I cannot enjoy the benefits you would make me happy with. As to money, I do not want any yet, and when I do, it will be time enough for me to borrow, if I should find any one, like you, so benevolently disposed as to lend me cash without security and interest: and as to staying at your house, that offer I cannot accept, as I am engaged to a near and rich friend, who will be to me a subaltern providence, if he can be found, and secure me from the evils my attachment to truth has exposed me to. One week however I will stay with you, since you are so good as to invite me in this kind manner.Here then I stayed a week, and passed it in a most happy way. Mr. Harcourt was[Page 388]
fond of me, and did every thing in his power to render the place agreeable. His lovely daughter was not only as civil as it was possible to be, but did me the honour to commence a friendship with me, which lasted from that time till death destroyed the golden thread that linked it.75.192 Reader, this young lady, Harriot Eusebia Harcourt, was the foundress of a religious house of protestant recluses, who are still a society in that part of Richmondshire where first I saw her and her father. They are under no vow, but while they please to continue members, live as they do in nunneries, and in piety, and in all the parts of the christian temper, endeavour a resemblance of their divine Lord and Master; with this distinction however, that to the plan of the regards due from man by the divine Law to God, to his fellow-creatures, and to himself, they add musick and painting for their diversion, and unbend their minds in these delightful arts, for a few hours every day. This makes them excel in these particulars. They are great masters in all kinds of musick, and do wonders with the pencil.Eusebia was but just turned of twenty when I first saw her, in the year 1725, and then her musical performances were admirable -her pictures had the ordonnance,[Page 389]
colouring, and expression of a great master. She was born with a picturesque genius, and a capacity to give measure and movement to compositions of harmony. Her music at the time I am speaking of had a most surprizing power: and in painting, long before this time, she astonished. When she was a child, nine years old, and had no master, she would sketch with a black lead pencil on a sheet of paper the pictures of various kinds that came in her way, and make such imitations as deserved the attention of judges. This made her father get her an eminent master, and she had not been long under his direction, when she was able to infuse a soul into her figures, and motion into her compositions. She not only drew landskips, and low subjects with a success great as Teniers, but evinced by her paintings, that she brought into the world with her an aptitude for works of a superior class. Her pictures shew that she was not the last among the painters of history. They are as valuable for the merit of the execution as for the merit of the subjects.76.193 Her histories of the revelations of St. John, which she finished a little before her death, from the first vision to the last, demonstrate a genius very wonderful, and that her hand was perfected at the same time[Page 390]
with her imagination. If this series of pictures is not in every respect equal to Giotto's on the same subject, (which I have seen in the cloyster of St. Clare at Naples), yet these paintings are treated with greater truth, and shew that the imagination of the painter had a hand and eye at its disposal to display the finest and compleatest ideas. The great artist is obvious in them.194 The first picture of this Series is a representation of the inside of the glorious temple, (that was made the grand scene of all the things St. John saw in the Spirit), the golden-lamp-sconce, called the seven candlesticks, which afforded the sanctuary all its light, and the august personage, who appears in refulgent brightness in the vision, in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. The majestic and godlike form which the apostle beheld is wonderfully painted. He is represented with more than human majesty. Like Raphael, in his picture of the Eternal Father, in one of the Vatican chapels, she does not inspire us merely with veneration, she strikes us even with an awful terror: elle n'inspire pas une simple veneration, elle-imprime une terreur respectueuse. In his right hand, this grand person holds the main shaft that supports the six branches of the six lighted lamps, and the seventh lamp[Page 391]
at the top of the main trunk, which gleam like a rod of seven stars, as it is written, having in his hand seven stars, and in this attitude, with his face to the apostle, he appears in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks, the emblems of the churches, walking, or attending to trim them, the churches; with a sharp two-edged sword, that is, the powerful word of God, as Aaron walked to trim the real lamps with the golden snuffers. St. John is seen on the floor. He is looking in great surprize at the whole appearance, and as with amazement he beholds the divine Person in the vision, he seems struck with dread, and going to faint away; as he says in the Apocalyps,-When I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead.195 The next picture in this series is a continuation of, or another representation of the inside of the temple, the golden lamp-sconce of seven golden candlesticks, and the august personage in refulgent brightness, and splendors transcendently glorious; but with this difference, that in this piece, the divine personage does not hold the main shaft of the branches of lights in his right-hand, or stand in the midst of the candlesticks; but, notwithstanding his sublime dignity, is painted with a godlike compassion in his face and manner, and with the greatest tenderness[Page 392]
raises and supports the apostle. You see him (as St. John describes him);-he laid his right-hand upon me (the hand which before held the seven stars, or lighted golden lamps, that exhibited an appearance not unlike a constellation of stars) saying unto me, fear not. I am the first and the last. I am he that liveth, even tho' I was dead, and behold I am alive for evermore, Amen. And I have the keys of hell and of death. -One almost hears these words from the lips of the august form, so wonderfully is the figure painted,- so happily has the pencil counterfeited nature: and the apostle appears to revive in transports, as he knows from the words that it is his Lord and Master is speaking to him. It is a fine picture.196 The third painting in this series is the subsequent vision, in the 4th and 5th chapters of the Revelation of John the Divine. --- In a part of the heavens that are opened, the throne of God is represented by a crystal seat or glory, and from it proceed flashings of a bright flame like lightning and thunder, to represent the awful majesty of the One, and One Only, True God, the Supreme Lord of all things: seven lamps of fire are burning before this throne, as emblems of the seven spirits, or principal servants of God, to shew with what purity, constancy, and zeal, the spirits of the just[Page 393]
made perfect serve God in the heavenly church; and next them appears a crystal sea of great brightness and beauty; much more glorious than the brazen sea in the temple, which held the water for the use of the priests. This sea alludes to that purity that is required in all persons who have the honour and happiness of a near approach to God, as he manifests himself on the throne of inaccessible light, or, in the moral Shechinah in this lower world (37.) 197 The next figures are the four living creatures, or cherubim of Ezekiel (which our English translation very badly renders four beasts) and they are placed in[Page 394]
the middle of each side of the throne, in the whole circle round about, full of eyes, not only before but behind: so as to have a direct and full view every way: without-side them, on seats, are the four and twenty elders placed, in white and shining garments, with crowns of gold upon their heads. The person who sits on the throne appears in great majesty and glory, and round about his throne the most beautiful rainbow is seen; to express the glory of God, and his faithfulness to his covenant and promise: the four living creatures next the throne, who represent the angels attendant on the Shechinah, and have the appearance of a lion, a calf, a man, and an eagle, full of eyes, and with six wings, to express the great understanding and power of the angels, their activity, constancy, and good will;---they are drawn in the act of adoring and praising the eternal living God; and are answered by the four and twenty elders, the representatives of the people, the churches. So inimitably are all these things painted, that the faces of the cherubim and the four and twenty elders seem to move in worship and thanksgiving: one acquainted with the divine songs, cannot help fansying that he hears the four living creatures, saying, Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, which was, and is, and is to come; who for ever[Page 395]
wast, and for ever wilt be, the one true God, the everlasting Lord: and that the elders, that is, the Christian people, reply, Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory, and honour, and power: for Thou hast created all things, and for Thy pleasure they are and were created.The apostle, St. John, appears in great admiration, on account of the things before him, but seems more particularly affected by a book sealed with seven seals, which the person who sits on the throne holds in his right-hand;-an angel who is painted in the act of proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book, and to loose the seals thereof-and a lamb with seven horns and eyes, standing just before the throne, within the circles of the cherubim and elders: this Lamb, represented as a sacrifice, and with seven horns and eyes, to shew the power, wisdom, and goodness of our Lord in the work of redemption, and the accomplishment of all God's designs of wisdom and grace, engages the attention and wonder of the apostle; and as this Lamb of God receives the book from the person on the throne, a rising joy appears through the astonishment of St. John, and seems to be encreasing, as he hears the living creatures and the elders sing a new song, or hymn of a new composition, which expresses the peculiar[Page 396]
honour of the Son of God, and our peculiar engagements to him, in these words -Thou art worthy to take the book, and to open the seals thereof: for thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us unto God by thy blood, out of every kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation. -Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive power and riches, and wisdom and strength, and honour, and glory, and blessing. ---Blessing, and honour, and glory; and power, be unto him, that sitteth upon, the throne, and unto the Lamb for ever and ever. ---And as the angels conclude this solemn act of worship by saying, Amen; and the people by worshipping him that liveth for ever and ever, the true God, who liveth and reigneth from everlasting to everlasting; and having raised up his Son Jesus, sent him to bless you in turning every one of you from his iniquities; the apostle seems in pleasure to join them, and shews a sensibility and action that is very wonderful. It is a charming picture. The divine artist has treated the whole subject with the most elaborate and beautiful expression, and with a delightful richness of local colours. This painting gives the beholder a full and fine idea of the vision (38.) 198
[Page 397]

77.199 But it was not only in painting, and in musick, that Miss Harcourt excelled: she had, when I first saw her, made great progress in her studies, and discovered in her conversation extraordinary abilities. She talked wisely and learnedly on many subjects, and in so charming a manner, that she entered into the possession of the heart, and the admiration of all that heard her: nor was it only in pure Italian, Spanish, and other languages that she could express her notions; but, in the correctest Latin she often spoke to me, and for an hour would discourse in the Roman tongue, with as great ease as if she had been talking English. She spoke it without any manner of difficulty, which was more than I could do. I was slow, and paused sometimes; but this young lady went on with that volubility of tongue the women are born with. The language being Latin was no check to her natural fluency of speech.To all this let me add, and with truth I can add it, that Eusebia, from the time I was first acquainted with her to her death, walked in the fear of the Lord, and of consequence, in the comforts of the Holy Ghost. Religion[Page 398]
from her infancy was her stated and ordinary business, and her sole concern to know and do her duty to God and men. The Proverbs of Solomon, and the pattern of Christ, were her study when a very young girl, and from both she acquired a conduct so prudent and evangelical, that she seemed at the greatest heights of grace and goodness which a mortal can reach, and appeared as one that had made a prodigious proficiency in divine knowledge, and in every virtue: yet there was nothing gloomy, or even formal in her behaviour: she was good-humour itself: frank and free; quite easy, and for ever chearful.200 Miss Harcourt, at the time I am speaking of, that is, in the one and twentieth year of her age, had all the qualities that constitute a beauty: she was tall and graceful, and in every action, and her whole behaviour, to the last degree charming: her eyes were vastly fine, large and long, even with her face, black as night, and had a sparkling brightness as great as could appear from the refraction of diamonds: her hair was as the polished jet, deep and glossy; and yet, her complexion fresh as the glories of the spring, and her lips like a beautiful flower.This Lady was nine years abroad with her father, who died of the plague at Constantinople[Page 399]
in 1733, and in the course of her travels, did me the honour to write me many fine letters, in which she obliged me with her remarks on the things and people they saw in many countries. We held a correspondence together, for a considerable part of the time, and in return for her valuable favours, I sent her the best account I could give of the matters that came in my way. These letters may perhaps appear some day.In the year 34 Mrs. Harcourt returned to England, and brought over with her some ladies, who became constituents of her claustral house. They formed the most rational and happy society that ever united, and during the life of the foundress, resided sometimes in one of the Western Islands, but for the most part in Richmondshire. Since her death, which happened in the year 45, they have lived intirely in the North of England, separated from all the world by the most dreadful mountains. They were but twelve in number for several years, but, in the sixth year of the Instituto, Mrs. Harcourt encreased it to twenty-four members, by taking in twelve eleves or disciples. The twelve seniors govern a year about in their turns, unless it be the request of the house, that the superior for the year past should continue in the office another year. This, and their easy[Page 400]
circumstances, secure their peace, and as they are ever wise to that which is good, and simple concerning evil, they lead most happy lives: nor can it be otherwise with mortals who cultivate the grace of humility (the want of which lies at the bottom of all contentions,) and by a christian prudence, make it their main work to facilitate the practice of piety, and to promote the pleasure and the lustre of it. Glorious women! to letters, arts, and piety, they devote those hours which others waste in vanities the most senseless and despicable; and pursuant to the advice, and according to the rule drawn up by their illustrious foundress, live as beings that have souls designed for eternity. They act continually upon a future prospect, and give all diligence in making constant advances toward the perfect day. Mrs. Harcourt shewed them what an uninspired mortal could do by the means of grace: that it was possible for assisted human nature (feeble as flesh and blood is) to resist temptations the most violent, and by the supreme motives of our religion, acquit ourselves like christians. If there be a devil to assault, a corrupt heart to oppose, and many difficulties to be encountred, yet her conduct was a demonstration, that those who are heirs of the heavenly country, may chuse and prosecute[Page 401]
their best interests, and improve the divine life to a high degree. Let us (she used to say) make salvation not only a concern on the bye, but the governing aim thro' the present life, and we shall not only live like the primitive christians, but die for our holy faith, with more resolution than the worthies of Greece and Rome, tho' death should appear in all his array of terrors. Neither adversity nor prosperity could then tempt us to drop a grain of incense before any idol, or commit any action that dishonoured the gospel. Let what will happen, in all events, we should secure the future happiness of our souls, and thereby provide for the everlasting glory and felicity of our bodies too in the morning of the resurrection.78.201 The twenty-fifth day of June I took my leave of Miss Harcourt and her father, and the rest of the good company, and on horses I borrowed, we returned to the philosophers at Ulubræ. It was nineteen miles round of most terrible road; a great part of it being deep and swampy bottom, with holes up to the horses shoulders in some places; and for several miles, we were obliged to ride on the sides of very steep and craggy mountains, in a path so very narrow, that we risked life, and passed in terror: a wrong step would have been destruction beyond[Page 402]
recovery. It was likewise no small perplexity to find, that I was going back again, the course being south and south-west; and that there was no other way of journeying from Mr. Harcourt's to Ulubræ, but through the pass I first travelled from Westmorland; unless I rid from Mr. Harcourt's into Cumberland, and then round through Bishoprick to the valley the gentlemen lived in. On then I went at all hazards, and in a tedious manner was forced to creep the way: but to make some amends, the prospects from the hills were fine, and things very curious occurred. Groupes of crests of mountains appeared here and there, like large cities with towers and old Gothick edifices, and from caverns in their sides torrents of water streamed out, and tumbled in various courses to the most delightful vales below. In some of the vast hills there were openings quite through, so as to see the sun, at the end of three or four thousand yards; and in many of them were sloping caverns, very wonderful to behold.79.202 I found in one of them, near the top of a very high mountain, a descent like steps of stairs, that was in breadth and height like the isle of a church, for 300 yards, and then ended at a kind of door, or small arched opening, that was high enough[Page 403]
for a tall man to walk into a grand room which it led to. This chamber was a square of 17 yards, and had an arched roof about 20 high. The stone of it was a green marble, not earthy and opake, but pure and crystalline, which made it appear very beautiful, as the walls were as smooth as if the best polish had made them so. There was another opening or door at the other side of this chamber, and from it likewise went a descent like steps, but the downward passage here was much steeper than the other I had come to, and the opening not more than one third as wide and high; narrowing gradually to the bottom of the sloping road, till it ended in a round hole, a yard and a quarter every way. I could see the day at the opening below, tho' it seemed at a great distance from me, and as it was not dangerous to descend, I determined to go down.The descent was 479 yards in a straight line, and opened in a view of meadows, scattered trees, and streams, that were enchantingly fine. There appeared to be about four and twenty acres of fine land, quite surrounded with the most frightful precipices in the world, and in the center of it a neat and pretty little country house, on an easy rising ground. I could discover with my long[Page 404]
glass a young and handsome woman sitting at the door, engaged in needle-work of some kind; and on the margin of a brook hard by, another charmer stood, angling for fish of some sort: a garden appeared near the mansion that was well improved; and in the fields were sheep and goats, horses, and cows: cocks and hens, ducks and geese, were walking about the ground; and I could perceive a college of bees. The whole formed a charming scene.80.203 Pleased with the view, and impatient to know who the two charmers were, I quite forgot the poor situation in which I left Tim, holding the horses at the mouth of the cavern, on the dangerous side of so high a hill, and proceeded immediately to the house, as soon as I had recovered myself from a fall. My foot slipt in the passage, about six yards from the day, and I came rolling out of the mountain in a violent and surprizing manner. It was just mid-day when I came up to the ladies, and as they did not see me till they chanced to turn round, they were so amazed at my appearing, they changed colour, and one of them shrieked aloud; but this fright was soon over, on my assuring them that I was their most humble servant, and had against my will tumbled out of the hole that was at the bottom of that vast mountain before them. This I explained,[Page 405]
and protested that I had not a thought of paying them a visit, when curiosity led me into an opening near the top of the hill, as I was travelling on; but that when I did get through so wonderful a passage, and saw what was still more strange, when I arrived in the vale, to wit, two ladies, in so wild and silent a place, I judged it my duty to pay my respects, and ask if you had any commands that I could execute in the world? This was polite, they said, and gave me thanks; but told me, they had no favor to ask than that I would dine with them, and inform them how it happened that I was obliged to travel over these scarce passable mountains, where there was no society nor support to be had. Beside, if in riding here, you should receive a mischief, there was not a possibility of getting any relief. There must be something very extraordinary surely, that could cause you to journey over such frightful hills, and through the deep bottoms at the foot of them.Ladies (I replied), necessity and curiosity united are the spring that move me over these mountains, and enable me to bear the hardships I meet with in these ways. Forced from home by the cruelties of a step-mother, and forsaken by my father on her account, I am wandering about the precipices of Richmondshire in search of a gentleman, my Friend; to whose hospitable house and generous[Page 406]
breast I should be welcome, if I could find out where he lives in some part of this remote and desolate region: and as my curiosity is more than ordinary, and I love to contemplate the works of nature, which are very grand and astonishing in this part of the world, I have gone many a mile out of my way while I have been looking for several days past for my friend, and have ventured into places where very few I believe would go. It was this taste for natural knowledge that travelled me down the inside of the mountain I am just come out of. If I had not had it, I should never have known there was so delightful a little country here as what I now see: nor should I have had the honor and happiness of being known to you.But tell me, Sir, (one of these beauties said) how have you lived for several days among these rocks and desart places, as there are no inns in this country, nor a house, except this here, that we know? are you the favorite of the fairies and genies-or does the wise man of the hills bring you every night in a cloud to his home?It looks something like it, madam, (I answering said) and the thing to be sure must appear very strange: but it is like other strange things: when the nature of them is known, they appear easy and plain. This[Page 407]
country I find consists, for the most part, of ranges and groups of mountains horrible to behold, and of bogs, deep swampy narrow bottoms, and waters that fall and run innumerable ways: but this is not always the case: like the charming plain I am now on, there are many flowery and delicious extensive pieces of ground, enclosed by vast surrounding hills-the finest intervals betwixt the mountains: the sweetest interchange between hill and valley, I believe in all the world, is to be found in Richmondshire, and in several of those delightful vales I discovered inhabitants as in this place: but the houses are so separated by fells scarce passable, and torrents of water, that those who live in the centre of one group of mountains know not any thing of agreeable inhabitants that may dwell on the other side of the hills in an adjacent vale. If there had been a fine spot at the bottom of the precipice I found the opening in, and people living there, (as might have been the case) you ladies who live here, could have no notion of them, as you knew nothing of a passage from the foot to the summit of yonder mountain, within side of the vast hill, and if you did, would never venture to visit that way; and as there is not a pass in this chain of hills, to ride or walk through, to the other side of them: but the way out of this valley we are now[Page 408]
in, as I judge from the trending of the mountains all round us, must be an opening into some part of Cumberland. For this reason Stanemore hills may have several families among them, tho' you have never heard of them, and I will now give you an account of some, who behaved in the most kind and generous manner to me. Here I began to relate some particulars concerning my friend Price and his excellent wife; the admirable Mrs. Burcot and Mrs. Fletcher; the philosophers who lived at Ulubræ, to whom I was returning; and the generous Mr. Harcourt, and his excellent daughter, whom I left in the morning; and at whose house I arrived by travelling up the dark bowels of a tremendous mountain; as, on the contrary, I arrived at theirs by a descent through yonder frightful hill, till I came rolling out by a fall within, in a very surprising and comical way; a way that would have made you laugh, ladies; or, in a fright, cry out, if you had happened to be walking near the hole or opening in the bottom of that hill, when, by a slip of my foot, in descending, a few yards from the day, I tumbled over and over, not only down what remained of the dark steep within, but the high sloping bank that reaches from the the outside of the opening to the first flat part of the vale. There is nothing wonderful[Page 409]
then in my living in this lone country for so many days. The only strange thing is, considering the waters and swamps, that I was not drowned; or, an account of the precipices and descents I have been engaged on, that I did not break my neck, or my bones: but so long we are to live as Providence hath appointed for the accomplishment of the grand divine scheme. Till the part allotted us is acted, we are secure. When it is done, we must go, and leave the stage for other players to come on.The ladies seemed greatly entertained with my histories, and especially with my tumbling out of the mountain into their vale. They laughed very heartily; but told me, if they had happened to be sitting near the hole, in the bottom of that tremendous rocky mountain, as they sometimes did, and often wondered where the opening went to, and that I had come rolling down upon them, they would have been frightened out of their senses; for they must have thought it a very strange appearance: without hearing the history of it, they must think it a prodigious occurrence, or exception from the constant affairs of nature.This might be, ladies, (I answered,) but from seeing me before your eyes you must own, that many things may be fact, which at first may seem to exceed the common limits[Page 410]
of truth. Impossible or supernatural some people conclude many cases to be that have not the least difficulty in them, but happen to be made of occurrences and places they have not seen, nor heard the like of before. Things thought prodigious or incredible by ignorance and weakness, will appear to right knowledge and a due judgment very natural and accountable to the thoughts.Here a footman came up to us, to let his mistress know that dinner was on the table, and we immediately went in to an excellent one. The ladies were very civil to me, and exerted a good humour to shew me, I suppose, that my arrival was not disagreeable to them, tho' I tumbled upon their habitation, like the genie of the caverns, from the hollows of the mountains. They talked in an easy, rational manner, and asked me many questions that shewed they were no strangers to books and men and things: but at last it came to pass, that the eldest of those ladies, who acted as mistress of the house, and seemed to be about one or two and twenty, desired to know the name of the gentleman I was looking for among these hills, and called my friend. My reason, Sir, for asking is, that you answer so exactly in face and person to a description of a gentleman I heard not very[Page 411]
long ago, that I imagine it may be in my power to direct you right.Madam, (I replied), the gentleman I am in search of is Charles Turner, who was my schoolfellow, and my senior by a year in the university, which he left two years before I did, and went from Dublin to the north of England, to inherit a paternal estate on the decease of his father. There was an uncommon friendship between this excellent young man and me, and he made me promise him, in a solemn manner, to call upon him as soon as it was in my power; assuring me at the same time, that if by any changes and chances in this lower hemisphere, I was ever brought into any perplexities, and he alive, I should be welcome to him and what he had, and share in his happiness in this world, while I pleased. This is the man I want: a man, for his years, one of the wisest and best of the race. His honest heart had no design in words. He ever spoke what he meant, and therefore, I am sure he is my friendTo this the lady answered, Sir, since Charles Turner is the man you want, your enquiry is at an end, for you are now at his house; and I, who am his sister, bid you welcome to Skelsmore-Vale in his name. He has been for a year and a half last past in Italy, and a little before he went, gave me such a description of you as enabled me to[Page 412]
guess who you were after I had looked a while at you, and he added to his description a request to me, that if you should chance to call here, while I happened to be in the country, that I would receive you, as if you were himself; and when I removed, if I could not, or did not chuse to stay longer in the country, that I would make you an offer of the house, and give you up all the keys of it, to make use of it and his servants, and the best things the place affords, till his return; which is to be, he says, in less than a year. Now, Sir, in regard to my brother and his friend, I not only offer you what he desired I should, but I will stay a month here longer than I intended; for this lady, (my cousin, Martha Jacquelot) and I, had determined to go to Scarborough next week, and from thence to London: nor is this all: as I know I shall the more oblige my brother the civiller I am to you, I will, when the Scarborough season is over, if you chuse to spend the winter here, come back to Skelsmore-Vale, and stay till Mr. Turner returns.This discourse astonished me to the last degree-to hear that I was at my friend Turner's house,-he abroad, and to be so for another year: the possession of his seat offered me; and his charming sister so very civil and good, as to assure me she would[Page 413]
return from the Spaw, and stay with me till her brother came home: these were things so unexpected and extraordinary, that I was for some time silent, and at a loss what to say. I paused for some minutes, with my eyes fastened on this beauty, and then said -Miss Turner, the account you have given of your brother, and the information that I am now at his house-his friendly offers to me by you, and your prodigious civility, in resolving to return from Scarborough, to stay with me here till your brother arrives, are things so strange, so uncommon, and exceedingly generous and kind, that I am quite amazed at what I hear, and want words to express my obligations, and the grateful sense I have of such favors. Accept my thanks, and be assured, that while I live, I shall properly remember the civility and benevolence of this day; and be ever ready, if occasion offered, and the fates should put it in my power, to make a due return. Your offer, madam, in particular, is so high an honour done me, and shews a spirit so humane, as I told you I was an unfortunate one, that I shall ever think of it with pleasure, and mention it as a rare instance of female worth: but as to accepting these most kind offers, I cannot do it. Since Mr. Turner is from home, I will go and visit another friend I have in this country, to whom I[Page 414]
shall be welcome, I believe, till your brother returns. To live by myself here at my friend's expense, would not be right, nor agreeable to me: and as to confining you, madam, in staying with me, I would not do it for the world. Sir, (Miss Turner replied) in respect of my staying here, it will be no confinement to me, I assure you. My heart is not set upon going to London. It was only want of company made Miss Jacquelot and me think of it, and if you will stay with us, we will not even go to Scarborough this season. -This was goodness indeed: but against staying longer than two or three days, I had many good reasons that made it necessary for me to depart: beside the unreasonableness of my being an expence to Mr. Turner in his absence, or confining his sister to the country; there was Orton-Lodge, where I had left O Fin, my lad, at work, to which I could not avoid going again: and there was Miss Melmoth, on whom I had promised to wait, and did intend to ask her if she would give me her hand, as I liked her and her circumstances, and fansied she would live with me in any retreat I pleased to name; which was a thing that would be most pleasing to my mind. It is true, if Charles Turner had come home, while I stayed at his house, it was possible I might have got his sister, who was a very great[Page 415]
fortune: but this was an uncertainty however, and in his absence, I could not in honour make my addresses to her: if it should be against his mind, it would be acting a false part, while I was eating, his bread: Miss Turner to be sure had fifty thousand pounds at her own disposal, and so far as I could judge of her mind, during the three days that I stayed with her at Skelfmore-Vale, I had some reason to imagine her heart might be gained: but for a man worth nothing to do this, in her brother's house, without his leave, was a part I could not act, tho' by missing her I had been brought to beg my bread. Three days then only I could be prevailed on to stay, and the time indeed was happily spent.204 Miss Turner was good-humoured, sensible, and discreet, as one could wish a woman to be, talked pleasantly upon common subjects, and was well acquainted with the three noblest branches of polite learning, antiquity, history, and geography. It was a fine entertainment to hear her. She likewise understood musick, and sung, and played well on the small harpsichord: but her moral character was what shed the brightest lustre on her soul. Her thoughts and words were ever employed in promoting God's glory, her neighbour's benefit, and her own true welfare; and her hand very often, in giving[Page 416]
to the poor. One third of her fine income she devoted to the miserable, and was in every respect so charitable, that she never indulged the least intemperance in speaking. She detested that calumny and reproach which assassinates a credit, as much as she abhorred the shedding a man's blood. The goodness of her heart was great indeed: the integrity of her life was glorious. She was perfection, so far as the thing is consistent with the nature and state of man here-as it was possible for a mortal to be exempt from blame in life, and blemish of soul. An absolute exemption from faults cannot be the condition of any one in this world: But (to the ladies I now speak), you may, like miss Turner, be eminently good, if you will do your best to be perfect in such a kind and degree as human frailty doth admit.81.205 Miss Jacquelot was by the head lower than miss Turner, and her hair the very reverse of my friend's sister, that is, black as the raven: but she had a most charming little person, and a mind adorned with the finest qualifications. Reason never lost the command in her, nor ceased to have an influence upon whatever she did. It secured her mind from being ever discomposed, and disengaged her life from the inconveniencies which a disregard to reason exposes us to.[Page 417]
By a management it dictated, she enjoyed perpetual innocence and peace. She never uttered a word that intrenched upon piety, infringed charity, or disturbed the happiness of any one, nor at any time shewed the least sign of a vain and light spirit: yet she had a sportfulness of wit and fancy that was delightful, when she could handsomely and innocently use it, and loved to exert the sallies of wit in a lepid way, when they had no tendency to defile or discompose her mind, to wrong or harm the hearer, or her neighbour, or to violate any of the grand duties incumbent on us; piety, charity, justice, and sobriety. Every thing that reason made unfit to be expressed, in relation to these virtues, she always carefully avoided; but otherwise, such things excepted, would enliven and instruct by good sense in jocular expression, in a way the most charming and pleasing. She was very wise, agreeable and happy. She was very good and worthy.This young lady was a great master on the fiddle, and very knowing in connoissance. She painted well, and talked in an astonishing manner, for a woman, and for her years, of pictures, sculpture, and medals. She was indeed a fine creature in soul and body.
[Page 418]

82.206 With these ladies I spent three days in Skelsmore-Vale; and the time we talked, walked, played, and laughed away. Sometimes we rambled about the hills, and low adown the dales. Sometimes we sat to serious ombre; and often went to musick by the falling-streams. Miss Turner sung; miss Jacquelot played the fiddle: and on my German flute I breathed the softest airs. We were a happy three, and parted with regret on every side. Fain would they have had me stay, and Scarborough and London should be thought of no more: but the reason of things was against it, and the 28th day of June I took my leave. Through the mountain I had descended, I went up again to Tim and my horses; who were stabled in the mouth of the cavern above, and had got provender from the vale below.83.207 The sun was rising as we mounted the horses, and struck me so powerfully with the surpassing splendor and majesty of its appearance, so cheared me by the gladsome influences, and intimate refreshment of its all-enlivening beams, that I was contriving as I rid on an apology for the first adorers of the solar orb, and imagined they intended nothing more than the worship of the transcendent majesty of the invisible Creator,[Page 419]
under the symbol of his most excellent and nearly resembling creature; and this according to some imperfect tradition, that man, as a compound Being, had, in the beginning, a visible glorious presence of Jehovah Elohim -a visible exhibition of a more distinguished presence by an inexpressible brightness or glory: this is some excuse for the first worshippers of the solar orb: and when the thing consecrated to the imagery and representation of its Maker, became the rival of his honours, and from being a help to devotion, was advanced into the supreme object of it; yet considering the prodigious glory of this moving orb, and that all animated nature depends upon its auspicious presence, we cannot wonder that the Egyptian ruralists, without a creed, and without a philosophy, should be tempted to some warmer emotion than a merely speculative admiration, and inclined to something of immediate devotion. That universal chorus of joy that is manifested at the illustrious solemnities of opening sun-shine, might tempt the weak to join in a seemingly-religious acclamation. At least I am sure there is much more to be said for this species of idolatry, than for the papists worshipping dead men, stocks, bones, and clouts. They have not only revelation expressly against them- Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him[Page 420]
only shalt thou serve. (Matt. iv, 10.)-Neither shalt thou set up any image or pillar. (Deut. xvi. 22.) But downright reason demonstrates that the things are useless to the preservers, and offensive to God: whereas, on the contrary, when the eye beholds that glorious and important luminary of heaven, and consider the benefits dispensed to mankind by the means of its most beautiful and invigorating beams, it might strike not only an unpractised thinker, and cause the vulgar, (who are not able of themselves to raise their thoughts above their senses, and frame a notion of an invisible Deity), to acknowledge the blessings they received, by a devotion to this fansied visible exhibition of divinity: but even some of the wise ones who were a degree above the absurdity of popular thinking, might be led to address themselves to the golden sun, in splendor likest heaven. They might ascribe the origin of their own existence, and the world's, to this seemingly adequate cause, and genial power of the system; when they beheld him returning again in the east, (as I now see him) after the gloom and sadness of the night; again the restorer of light and comfort, and the renewer of the world; regent of the day, and all th'horizon round, invested with bright rays; that all inferior nature, the earth's own form, and the supports of its animated inhabitants,[Page 421]
seem to depend on his dispensing authority, and to be the effects of his prolific virtue, and secret operation: they might suppose, in the corruption of tradition, or when the reveled truth and direction was lost, and reason not as now in its maturity of age and observation, that some kind of glory should be given to the subordinate divinity (as they fansied) of this heavenly body, and that some homage was due to the fountain of so much warmth and beneficence. This (I imagine) may account for the earliest kind of idolatry; the worship paid to the sun. The effects of his presence are so great, and his splendour so overpowering and astonishing, that veneration and gratitude united, might seduce those ignorant mortals to deify so glorious an object. When they had lost the guard of traditionary revelation (39) 208 ,[Page 422]
and wanted those helps to judgment which are derived from the experience, observation, and reasoning of past times, the specious[Page 423]
idolatry might have been introduced, and something tolerably plausible perhaps was pleaded by the better heads of those times.
[Page 424]
Exclusive of an imperfect notion of the Deity's appearing by Shechinah, and that the sun might be the visible exhibition (as[Page 425]
observed); they might, in the next place, conclude from the extraordinary motion of the luminary, that he was an animated being, and noble intelligence, placed in the highest post of honor and usefulness, and employed by God as his first minister and servant; for which reason, they thought it their duty to magnify and venerate the sun, whom the Creator had exalted so high; as the chief ministers of kings are had in honor, which is reflected back on their royal masters. Thus might the novel impiety come on. They might, in the beginning, worship[Page 426]
the sun as the Shechinah, appearing by a glorious light, or in a celestial train attending the presence, which, at so great a distance, must appear in an indistinct, luminous vision; but more generally, as the minister of God; an animated being, who had a principle of consciousness put into it; as the human body has, seated in it, a human soul; and that this glorious creature was enabled to perform the etherial journeys by its own understanding and will, and to make all lower nature happy by his benign and diffusive influence; could see as far as he is seen, and every way was fitted for the noble work he had to execute. Thus did the sun commence a God. He must, (they thought) from every appearance, in his wondrous, useful course, have the most exalted powers; be wise and benevolent, great and good. And when the worship of this luminary was once established, it could not be long before the moon was deified: and then the stars became conservators of the universe. From thence idolatry went on, and added to the heavenly bodies the emblematic doctrine, and animal apotheosis. Artificial fire was consecrated, and made the symbol of sidereal splendors. Deity was exhibited to the multitude in the forms of its effects, and innumerable orders of inferior divinities by degrees sprang up. Successive enlargements of the system[Page 427]
of natural apotheosis prevailed; and, at last, the world, which ought only to have been regarded, as the magnificent theatre of divine perfections, was itself blasphemously adored, as the independent proprietor of them.It is evident from hence that a reveled rule was wanting, or man had need of physics, to suppress the rising transports of a too eager gratitude, and guard against the inclination to worship this rising, lucid being, now so glorious before me; whose motion is so steady and uniform, swift, regular, and useful, that it seems to manifest itself a wise and intelligent being. Without the lights of philosophers, or the supernatural assistance of religion, it was hard for recent and wondering mortals, to refrain from worshiping that beautiful body, as they saw it proceeded with the greatest harmony, and shed innumerable blessings on them. But pure reveled religion diffuses such a light as manifests the error: and a correct and philosophic reasoning, (in this improved age the safe guide, and proper arbitrator of religion) not only refuses to address itself to that God of the antient popular theology, but proves the worship impious and absurd.Right reason and revelation demonstrate from the matchless graces and glories of nature, which occur in great variety, and without[Page 428]
number, wherever we turn our eyes, that there is a Creator of infinite power, wisdom, and goodness; who beautifully provides for the uses and occasions of human life, and produces repeated millions of objects that bear the stamp of omnipotence, and remain perpetual monuments of the divine benevolence. Manifold are thy works, O Lord; in wisdom hast thou made them all!And especially, when from the earth I lift up my eyes to the heavens, and behold among the wonders of the firmament, that vast and magnificent orb, the sun now rising before me, brightning by degrees the horizon, and pouring the whole flood of day upon us; the wonderful and grand scene strikes powerfully on my mind, and causes an awful impression. With sentiments of the greatest admiration, I consider the illustrious object, and feel the kindly heat of that bright luminary, inspiring me with more than usual gladness. And what power is it that supplies this fountain of light and heat, with his genial and inexhausted treasure -who dispenses it with such munificent, yet wise profusion? It must be some Almighty Being. It must be the work of the Deity, that is, the powerful, wise, and good Parent of mankind, the Maker, Preserver, and Ruler of the world; for his perfections are stampt upon the work. The[Page 429]
evidence of reason declares it. Chance or necessity cannot form or guide. An active understanding only, and intending cause, can produce, and direct: and this cause, must be all-ruling wisdom, and unlimited power, in conjunction with the most amiable goodness. This is plain to a thorough and rational examination. A supreme Being, an eternal self-existent mind, who comprehends and presides over all, must impart the benefits of that glorious creature before me, using it as an inanimate, unconscious, instrument of conveying light, heat, and prolific influences to the earth; which, by infinite power, is rendered as much active in sending the vegete juices through the vessels of all plants, as the sun is in diffusing its rays upon the surface of the globe we inhabit. The sun, and moon, and stars, are but instruments in his hand, for bringing about mechanically whatever good effects he has created them to produce. Our holy religion and philosophic reasoning evince this truth. This glorious sun bears the signatures of its author, and the finger of God is discernible every where. The wisdom and loving-kindness of the Lord are visible, whatever way we turn. His bounty appears by its constant, yet voluntary communication, and is the more to be admired as it is a never-failing principle. This rising luminary that visits our earth, is,[Page 430]
in particular, a daily fresh instance of the divine favor; and did not God's goodness only, prevent its suspension, we should be involved in the utmost horror, nay, inevitable ruin: and when, in the evening it leaves us overspread by the darkness, to visit others with its benign influences; the change is charming, for night gives man a necessary vacation from the labours of the day. In sleep he takes the sweetest refreshment, till this rising sun, by the beneficent direction of its great Author, again appears in grace and splendor, and displays the face of nature in unspeakable beauties. Every where the bounty of the supreme Spirit I see diffused; through air, through earth, and in the waters. No place is without witnesses of his liberality; and life is the care of his providence.Of him then should our songs be, and our talking of all his wonderful works. We should join in adoring him, and acknowledge him worthy to receive glory and honour and power, who has created all things, and for his pleasure they are and were created. And it follows, that we should likewise absolutely submit to this sovereign Being, and ever resign ourselves to his direction and disposal. Where can ignorance and impotence find so safe and sure a refuge as in infinite wisdom, and almighty power?
[Page 431]

84.209 In this manner were my thoughts employed, as we rid over the brows of many high hills, with the rising sun before me, till we descended to a narrow wet bottom, which trended due west for an hour, and brought us to the foot of another high mountain. This we ascended with the horses as far as it was possible to bring them, and from thence I climbed up to the top, by a steep craggy way, near 200 yards. This was very difficult and dangerous, but I had an enchanting prospect, when I gained the summit of the hill. A valley near a mile in breadth appeared betwixt the opposite mountains, and that on which I stood; and a river was running through it, that spread sometimes into little lakes, and sometimes fell headlong from the rocks in sounding cascades. The finest meadows, and little thickets, bordered those waters on every side, and beyond them the vast hills had a fine effect in the view: some were covered with forest; and some with precipitating streams. I was charmed with this assemblage of the beauties of nature. It is a more delightful landscape than art has been able to form in the finest gardens of the world.85.210 The descent was easy to this beautiful vale, and after I had feasted my eyes with the prospect of the place, I went down to see who lived in a house covered with creeping[Page 432]
greens, that stood by a sonorous waterfall. Some wise one perhaps, (I said) who scorns the character of the libertine, or the sot, and to the pursuits of avarice and ambition leaves the world; to enjoy in this fine retreat the true happiness of man; by embracing that wisdom which is from above, and aspiring to an equality with saints and angels: happy man! if such a man be here. Or, it may be, some happy pair possess this charming spot of earth, and in discharging all the duties of the matrimonial relation, enjoy that fulness of satisfactions and felicities, which the divine institution was designed to produce. Happy pair indeed! if such a pair be here.86.211 But when I came near the mansion, no human creature could I see, nor, for some time, could I find an entrance any way. The gate of the garden in which the house stood was fast, and so was every window and door: but as the gardens were in fine order, and full of fruits, vegetables, and flowers, I knew it must be an inhabited place, tho' its people were from home. With my pole therefore I leaped a deep moat, which surrounded the garden, and for half an hour continued walking about it, pulling some things, and looking at others, in hopes that some one might be seen: no soul however appeared, and I was going to return to[Page 433]
my horses, when, by accident, I came to a descent of stairs, that was planted round with shade of laurel, ever-green, and branching palm. Down I went immediately. I walked thro' a long arched passage, in which two lamps were burning, and at the end of it came to an open door, that admitted me into an entry which led to a flight of stairs. Should I go any farther, was the question? If any one within, I might greatly offend: and if it was the habitation of rogues, I might find myself in a pound. What shall I do then? Go on, (says curiosity) and bravely finish the adventure.Softly then I ascended, listening, by the way, if I could hear any voice, and proceeded upwards, to the first floor. A door was there open, and on my tiptoes I went to look in: but, all I could see was a room well furnished, and through it I passed to another, which was likewise full of fine things, and had a door unlocked, that opened into a large library. The books were all bound in vellum, in an extraordinary manner, the collection valuable, and most judiciously ordered. Mathematical instruments of all Sorts were on a table, and every thing looked as belonging to a scholar and man of fortune. Great was my amazement, as I saw no living creature. I knew not what to think of all these things: nor did my astonishment diminish, when I went from the[Page 434]
library into two very handsome bedchambers, and saw in one of them the apparel of a woman; in the other the dress of a man.Musing on these matters, and looking over the books, I continued near an hour, when I turned round to depart, and saw at the door of the library I was in, a gentleman, and two young ladies in riding-dresses, who seemed more than amazed at the sight of me. The man's face I knew very well, and soon remembred he was one of the company that came over with me from Ireland in the Skinner and Jenkins, and a person I had thought a very odd man; for he never stirred out of his birth all the while he was on board, nor spoke a syllable to any one, except myself; and that only for a couple of hours after we landed; when he was pleased to single me out, and requested we might dine together; to which I said, with pleasure, Sir, and he came with miss Melmoth and me to our inn. With us he sat for the time I have said, and talked like a man of sense and virtue. He was but three or four years older than I was, and yet so very grave, that in respect of temper, he was fit for the bench. He told me, he lived in too remote a place, ever to expect to see me in the country; but he had a house in London, where he was every winter, if not hindered by sickness, and to a part of it I should be welcome,[Page 435]
if it was agreeable to me to improve our acquaintance. Many other civil things he said, and shewed a regard for me that I little expected, and could not but wonder at. All this made me as well known to him as he was remembred by me; but he looked as it were scared at the sight of me, in the place I now appeared in; where I stood leaning on my long pole (when he came to the closet door), and was reading out the following lines in a book I chanced to take into my hand; to which I added a few reflexions:87.212 ?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????Est ut dicis. Vera prædicas, vir sapiens. Quæ ad Deos spectant, pulcherrimum sacrificium et cultum esse maximum ducito, si teipsum quam optimum et justissimum præbeas. ????????????????????????????????????????????: Præbere se quam optimum ac justissimum, pluris apud Deos quam multæ victimæ. Sperandum est enim tales potius, quam qui victimas multas prosternunt, quidpiam boni a Diis immortalibus accepturos. Quam optimum cor ac justissimum ad aras feramus, & bonum a numine semper lucrabimus.
[Page 436]
True, most excellent sage. Rectitude and Benevolence are the perfection of rational nature, and when by philosophy, we acquire a temper, disposition and action, that are conformable to the truth of things, and continually display strict justice and universal charity, we offer the noblest sacrifice to heaven, and are consimilated with the Deity. By this divine affection, for order and goodness, we manifest a continual use and employment of ourselves for the glory of the supreme virtue, and may by this means, expect to obtain the infinite mercy of God; when slaughtered Hecatombs are despised; and the creeds of incomprehensible mysteries, and the external modes and forms of churchism, may be considered only as the weakness and blindness of reverend heads. Thousands of rams, and ten thousand rivers of oil; speculative faith, rites and ceremonies, are nothing, abstracted from that temper and affection, which unites us to the Deity, and to the whole system of rationals. Virtue and charity is religion.88.213 This passage and reflexion pronounced very loud, with an enthusiasm that seizes me when I take a classic in my hand, added greatly to the astonishment of finding me in the closet, and for some time the gentleman was not able to speak, or come forward; but[Page 437]
at last, moving towards me, as I did to him, the moment I saw him, he said, by what strange chance have I the favor of seeing you here? Inform me, I beseech you, in the name of friendship, what surprizing accident has thrown you on this solitude; without horse or servant-and how did you get over the broad moat of water, as the two garden gates were locked?Mr. Berrisfort (I answered), you may well wonder at seeing me in this remote and silent part of the world, and especially at my being in your study, without either horse or attendant in waiting, that you could find, on coming home; but the thing was all natural, in the common course of events, as you shall hear.Three weeks after you left me at White-haven, I set out from that place for Brugh under Stanemore, and went from thence up the northern mountains, in search of a gentleman I had some business with, who lives but a few miles beyond you, and on my return from his house, as the road lay very high on the side of yonder vast hill, I quitted my horse out of curiosity, to climb up to the top of the mountain, and see what kind of country lay on the other side of this long range of high hills. It was with great difficulty I got up to the pike, and few, perhaps, but myself, would attempt it: I was rewarded however by the[Page 438]
fine prospect, and seeing the descent on this side easy, and a house and large gardens before me, I could not refrain from going down to the bottom. I marched on to take a view of the mansion and improvements, and as I saw some very fine things in the gardens, and no sign of any living creature; the gates shut, and every place to appearance fastened, I leaped the moat with this pole, and after I had wandered about the ground, by accident came to the shady enclosure, in which I found the descending stairs from the garden; and seeing the lamps burning in the passage, could not avoid going down, and proceeded till I arrived at this fine library. My admiration was great, you may be sure, and the books too strong a temptation for me not to mind them. With great pleasure I looked into many of them, and at last opened the Greek writer I was reading out, when you came to the door of your study. Such were the causes that brought me where you find me.(Mr. Berrisfort replied): Sir, I am glad there was any thing in the force and operation of casualties, that could bring you to my house, and I assure you upon my word, that you are most heartily welcome. As I lay in my cabbin on ship-board, I conceived a great regard for you, on account of many[Page 439]
things I heard you say, and particularly, for your lively arguments with Dr. Whaley, before the storm began, in defence of the divine Unity, and against that miserable theology which the monks have invented, and continue to support, tho' it militates with the reveled truths of God, and the reason and fitness of things. I was greatly pleased with your different definitions of churchism and religion, and honoured you not a little for what you said in opposition to unintelligible mystery, and the glare of ceremony; at the same time, that you contended for the worship of the universal Father, and that sober, righteous, and godly life, which springs from the love of truth, virtue, and moral rectitude. Once more then I assure you, Sir, I am most heartily glad to see you, and I shall take it as a great favour if you will pass the summer with me in this wild country place. Every thing shall be made as agreeable as possible, and, exclusive of this closet of books, which you shall possess while you stay here, we will hunt, and set, and shoot, and enjoy all the pleasures of the field: but in the mean time, as it is now ten o'clock, we ought to think of breakfast, and he desired his sister, a most charming creature, to call for it immediately, and I soon saw several servants bring in every thing that was elegant and excellent. He told me[Page 440]
I need be under no uneasiness about my mare and horses, for there was a steep narrow way for them to come down to his stables, about half a mile from the place I left them, and he would immediately send one of his servants to bring them.This was vastly civil and affectionate, and I told Mr. Berrisfort, that I was under great obligations to him for his goodness, which I should ever have an extreme sense of, but I was obliged to go on upon business: a few days however I would enjoy the happiness he offered me, and we passed them in a very delightful manner.89.214 Early in the morning, we went out with the hounds, and for half a dozen hours, had the dogs in full cry before us. We had hawks and pointers in the afternoon, and enjoyed abroad all the sports of the field. Within, when our labours were over, we had the most elegant dinners and suppers; every thing, of meat and drink, that the best taste could desire: and the conversation was excellent after the repasts.90.215 Mr. Berrisfort was a man of letters and breeding; and the ladies had sense, and were no strangers to the best English books. They understood no other language than their mother tongue, but the choicest authors of every kind that our country has produced, they had read with great care.[Page 441]
The master of Yeoverin-Green was a learned, worthy, polite man, free in discourse (if he knew his company, and liked them, but otherwise quite mute,) and he was instructive in every thing he said. His sister and cousin were very good; discreet in their behaviour, temperate in their discourse, and easy in their manner. They had no learning; they pretended to no criticism; but talked, without vanity, of the best things, and what they did say, they expressed in a most agreeable way. There was no being dull with such people, in such a place. I have seen very few young ladies in my time that I liked better than those girls. They both charmed me with their persons, their faces, their good manners, and their chat; but I could not enough admire Miss Berrisfort for one particular, in which she not only excelled Miss Fox, but all the women that I have ever seen. This was in hunting. In the field, she seemed the silver-shafted queen.91.216 Mr. Berrisfort and Miss Fox followed the dogs with caution, and never attempted any thing that could hazard their necks or their bones: but the charming Juliet Berrisfort had so violent a passion for the diversion of the field, that she was seized with a kind of enthusiasm when she heard the cry of the hounds, and as if she had been the[Page 442]
goddess of the silver bow, or one of her immortal train, went on without a thought of her having brittle limbs. She leaped every thing to keep in with the dogs; five-bar gates; the most dangerous ditches and pales; and drove full-speed down the steepest hills, if it was possible for a horse to keep his feet on them. She frightened me the first morning I was out with her. She made my heart bounce a thousand times. I expected every now and then that she would break her neck; that neck where lillies grew. I was reckoned a very desperate rider by all that knew me, and yet, with this young lady, I paused several times at some leaps, when she did not hesitate at all. Over she went, in a moment, without thinking of the perils in her way; and then, if I broke my neck, I could not but pursue.

When glory call'd, and beauty led the way,What man could think of life, and poorly stay?


92.217 It was not in my complexion to stay, and by that means, I got a terrible fall the second day; whether by my own fault, or my horse's, I cannot tell: but as no bone was broke, and I had received no other mischief than a black eye, a bruise in my side, and a torn face, I was soon on my[Page 443]
mare again, and by Miss Berrisfort's side. She laughed immoderately at me, while the dogs were at fault, as my bones were safe, and advised me with a humorous tenderness, to ride with her brother and Miss Fox. It was not however very long, before I had more satisfaction than I desired; for in half an hour's time, we came to some pales, which the stag went over, and I leaped first; but Miss Berrisfort's horse, tho' one of the best in the world, unfortunately struck, and cleared them in such a manner, that the lovely Juliet came over his head. She fell very safely in high grass, where I waited for her, for fear of an accident of any kind, and did not receive the least hurt; but in the violence of the motion, and the way she came down, the curtain was thrown on her breast, and she lay for some moments stunn'd upon the ground. In a minute however I snatched her up, and set her on her feet. She came to herself immediately, and thanked me for my care of her; but was vexed to the heart at what had happened. She requested I would not mention the thing to her brother, or Miss Fox, and hoped I would be so generous as not to speak of it to any one. -Miss Berrisfort (I said) it is not in my soul to extract a mirth from the bad fortune of any one; and much less is it in my power to ridicule, or laugh at a woman of distinction,[Page 444]
for an accident like this. You may believe me, when I promise you, upon my word, and swear it by every sacred thing, that I will not so much as hint it to any mortal while you remain in this world. This gave her some relief, and by her foot in my hands, I lifted her into her saddle again. -Two benefits were from this mischance derived. One was, that for the future, this lady hunted with a little more caution, and did not take the leaps she was wont to do:-the other, that it gained me her heart, (though I did not know it for many months), and thereby secured for me the greatest happiness, against a day of distress. From the most trivial things the most important do often spring: but I proceed.93.218 Vexatious as the fall was to this young lady, it was I however that had all the pain, by the mischief I received when my horse threw me. My eye was in a sad black way, my side troubled me, and the skin was off half my face: yet I did not much mind it, as the diversion was good, and that immediately after the death of the stag, we hastened back to an excellent dinner, and some flasks of old generous wine; to which Bob Berrisfort and I sat for two or three hours. The ladies had left us, to change their dress, and walk in the gardens, and we fell into very serious chat.
[Page 445]
I am thinking (Mr. Berrisfort said, after a considerable pause, as we sat smoaking a pipe over against each other), that the cause you gave Dr. Whaley, on ship-board, for the decay of christianity, was the best I have heard. I remember you told this divine, that it was not a want of faith in the present generation that made so many renounce christianity; for, the world were no enemies to a republication of the law of nature by the man Christ Jesus; but the thing that makes infidels, and supports infidelity, is the extravagant doctrines which the theologers have obtruded upon the church, as essential parts of christianity. Enthusiasm, absurdity, and error, and the blind and bloody scenes of cruelty and superstition, have been the great stumbling-blocks to mankind, and given the most sad, severe and lasting stabs, to the interests and success of the pure and peaceable gospel of Christ. This is just. But exclusive of this, may we not say, that there are so many seeming contradictions, and a multiplicity of obscure passages in it, that it looks as if it could not be, in its present condition, a rule of faith: and that christians differ so much about the meaning of the texts of their bible, that reason knows not what to say to a religion so variously represented. It is not only the two great camps, papist against protestant, and protestant[Page 446]
against papist, who make the religion as different as black and white: that the reformed mission at Malabar tell the Indians they must not hearken to the jesuits, if they expect salvation; and the monks at Coromandel declare, on the contrary, to those Indians, that they will be damned to eternity, if they are converted to what the Danish ministers call christianity; which made the famous bramin Padmanaba say, that it was impossible for him to become a christian, till the learned christian priests had agreed among themselves what christianity was; for he had not erudition and judgment enough to decide in the intricate controversy: but, exclusive of this, protestants are so divided among themselves, even the church of England against the church of England-dissenters against dissenters-and give such different accounts of the reveled system, that it requires more understanding, and strict, serious enquiry, than the generality of people have, or can spare, to be able to determine in what party of the celebrated critics and expositors true religion is to be found: and when the controversy is so dark and various, and the authorized professors can never agree among themselves, what can a man of a plain understanding say to it? This makes many (I imagine) turn from the scriptures to study nature, and the general laws which are established[Page 447]
among the several gradations, ranks and classes of beings, so far as they are connected with intelligent, moral agency. In the natural, agreeable pages of that infinite volume, we see and perceive beauty and order, art, wisdom, and goodness, and are thereby led to the Creator and Governor of the world, the universal cause, preserver, and director of nature. We discover his providence, measures and benevolence, the rules and principles of eternal, immutable wisdom and reason, and by them are compelled to confess a universal, intelligent Efficient; one infinite, eternal, omnipotent, wise, good Being, from whom all others derive, and on whom all others necessarily depend, and that continually. In short, by studying nature, we discover a God of truth, order and rectitude, and as we find perfect universal truth, and moral rectitude to be the highest perfection in the Deity, our reason informs us, that we ought to shew our love of God, by a love of these; and that a regular, uniform pursuit of them, must be the only true and rational pursuit of human happiness. Here is a plain and good religion. Can we wonder then that many study and follow nature, and disregard those interested commentators, who, like opposite counsel at the bar, multiply and make void the law by different and contradictory pleadings on it? -Here Bob ended, and lit[Page 448]
his pipe again, while Jack laid his down, and went on in the following manner:219 As christianity was instituted by its great Author and Publisher, for the benefit of mankind, it is to be lamented that the divines should so differ, concerning what genuine reveled religion is, as to cause many to renounce this standing and perpetual rule of faith and manners: but as to contradictions and inconsistencies in the apostle's writings, I have read them over several times, and never could find such things in them. Obscure passages there are a few at first sight; but a little consideration can explain them by other scriptures, if we do not, like some commentators, endeavour, by forced constructions, to adapt the sense of them to a system. This is what ruins christianity. The monks shut out the light of reason, which is to explain scripture by scripture, and in the dark, fansy a metaphysical theology: They speculate a tritheistic mystery, original sin, divine sovereignty, election, reprobation, with many other pieties, and call the things revelation, which are, in reality, an artificial, invented corruption of the gospel. The majority of the doctors insist upon it that their reverend notions are reveled religion, and where they have a power, wattle the people into them: but men who will use the human understanding their Creator has given[Page 449]
them, and employ the reason of men in the choice of their religion, very easily perceive that unnatural representation could never come down from heaven; and that whatever the declaimers on human nature may say in praise of their gospel, it is impossible it should be inspiration, when the propositions rather merit laughter and contempt than the attention of rational creatures. This makes the Indians of any understanding flee christianity. This causes men of sense, in a free country, to declare against reveled religion. The principal offence must remain, while the majority of the clergy continue to blind the human understanding, and instead of couching the cataract, darken the souls of the people with a suffusion of mystery: to which I may add, and obstinately refuse to make use of unexceptionable, scriptural forms of expression in divine public service, though an alteration might be made without any possible danger or injury to the church, and continue to use in our liturgy unscriptural phrases, and metaphysical notions, the imaginations of weak men. While this is done, the christian religion must suffer, and of consequence, the divines who contend for mystery, and labour to destroy human reason and the powers thereof; to stifle and extinguish our common notions of things, and preclude all reasoning whatsoever upon the[Page 450]
subject of religion; must have the blood of more souls to answer for, in the approaching day of calamity, than they now seem to imagine, while great preferments blind their understanding, and render them insolent and positive. All this however has nothing to do with the true gospel. If men would read the historical, and the argumentative parts of the sacred writings with honesty, and explain them as right reason and true criticism directs; if they would study them with that true zeal, which is guided by a good light in the head, and which consists of good and innocent affections in the heart; and have at the same time a knowledge of the customs which prevailed, and the notions that were commonly received in those distant ages and countries, they would find no inconsistencies and contradictions in the scriptures: even the difficulties would soon disappear. The sacred writings would appear to be what they are-a system of religion that answers to all our wishes and desires:-that requires of us that obedience to which as rational beings we are antecedently bound; and offers us rewards for obeying more than nature could ever claim. In the gospel, we have the religion of nature in perfection, and with it a certainty of mercy and unutterable blessings: but in natural religion, as the reason and understanding of men can collect it, our hopes[Page 451]
of pardon and glory have but uncertain foundation. Without revelation, our hopes are liable to be disturbed and shaken by frequent doubts and misgivings of mind: but in reveled religion, that is, the moral law republished by inspired men, the promises of the gospel take in all the wishes of nature, and establish all her hopes. Blessed be God then for sending his well-beloved Son into the world. From him we have a law that is holy, and the commandment holy, and just, and good: and by a dutiful submission to this plain and perfect law, (in which there is no mystery, no inconsistency, no contradiction,) we are delivered from condemnation by the grace of God through Christ. Here is reason for adoring the divine goodness. The gospel gives a better evidence for the truth and certainty of life and immortality than nature before had given, and thereby displays the love that God has for the children of men.To this Mr. Berrisfort said, that he thought my plea for original christianity was good, and allowed it was not the gospel that was faulty in mystery and obscurity, contradiction and inconsistency; but, human ignorance, and human vanity, which have loaded it with absurdities, while they excluded reasoning about it, and warped its fair and heavenly maxims to the interests of systems[Page 452]
and temporalities. However (Bob continued), you will allow, I believe, that the sacred writers had not perpetually the aid of an unerring Spirit, and therefore are sometimes inconsistent in their accounts: that as they were sometimes destitute of divine assistance, they were liable to error when guided only by the human spirit, and did act like common men upon several occasions. This seems to be evident from the relations, and the human sentiments of the apostles. The evangelists speak of the same facts differently; and in citing prophecy, while one adapts a fact to the letter of the prophecy, another accommodates the letter of the prophecy to the letter of The fact: I mean here, the ass and colt in Matthew, and the colt only in John, and their citing Zechariah (ix. 9.) differently. And as to the other sacred writers, does not the dispute between Paul and Peter, shew a subjection, sometimes, to ignorance and error? does not the quarrel between Barnabas and Paul let us see, that one of them was mistaken, and both of them to be blamed? Tell me likewise, what you think of Mark and John's different accounts of the time of the crucifixion -and does not Matthew contradict Mark in his relation of the resurrection of Jesus?Jack Buncle to this replied, that however some zealots may contend for the perpetual[Page 453]
inspiration of the sacred writers, yet he could not think such doctrine necessary to the creed of a christian: Jesus only is called the truth, and was incapable of error. Christ only, in all his actions, was directed by a prophetic spirit. All other men, prophets and apostles, were sometimes left to the guidance of their own spirit; and therefore all things which they have signified to us by their words or deeds, are not to be considered as divine oracles. Nec adeo omnia, quæcunque dictis significarunt aut factis, ea pro divinis oraculis habenda. Nullus, excepto Domino, fuit unquam propheta, qui omnia egerit spiritu prophetico. So Limborch, Dodwell, and Baxter say, and of the same opinion were Grotius and Erasmus (40) 220 . They assert, that the apostles,[Page 454]
on ordinary occasions, were ordinary men. All true christian critics must allow this, and grant that, the universal inspiration of the[Page 455]
sacred penmen, is a notion founded in the prejudices of pious men and their mistaken sense of scripture. Such infallible authority[Page 456]
they think the best way to silence all objections, and weakly embrace the hypothesis to advance the honour of religion.
[Page 457]
But our allowing this, and that there are some disagreements and variations in the evangelists, cannot hurt the gospel. St. Paul[Page 458]
might reprove St. Peter, and speak himself sometimes after the manner of men; yet, we see where they had the divine assistance in[Page 459]
their explications, and the power of working miracles to confirm their doctrine; and there, as rational and thinking men, we must allow[Page 460]
the authority of the sacred books: the few places that have the marks of weakness, only serve to convince us, that the divine writers[Page 461]

[Page 462]
of the books made not the least pretension to perpetual inspiration. In suo sensu abundat -aliquid humanæ fragilitatis dissentio habet:[Page 463]
(says Jerome.) Human frailty and their own sense honestly appear, when there was not an occasion for infallibility and miracle. But whenever the preachers of the New Testament were wanted for the extraordinary purposes of divine providence,[Page 464]
they were made superior to the infirmities of nature: their understandings were enlarged[Page 465]
and inlightened and an inspired knowledge rendered them incapable of error. This, in my judgment, is so far from ruining the authority[Page 466]
of scripture, that it is the greatest confirmation of its truth. It shews the honesty of the preachers of the New Testament,[Page 467]
in owning they were only occasionally inspired: and when the incredulous see the ingenuous acknowledgment of what is human[Page 468]
in the inspired writings, the truth of our religion must be more conspicuous to their eyes: whereas the truths of the Testament[Page 469]
are hid from them, by making God the dictator of the whole; because they think that impossible, and therefore conclude, the christian religion has no better foundation. In short, there is no reason to believe that the apostles were extraordinarily inspired, when they say it not; and when their discourses have in them no mark of such like inspiration. It is sufficient, (says Le Clerc), if we believe that, no prophet of the New Testament has said any thing in the name of God, or by his order, which God has not effectually ordered him to say; nor has undertaken to foretell any thing, which God[Page 470]
had not indeed truly reveled to him:- that every matter of fact related in the books is true, and the records, in general, the truest and most holy history that ever was published amongst men, notwithstanding the writers may be mistaken in some slight circumstances: -that all the doctrines proposed are really and truly divine doctrines, and there is no sort of reasoning in the dogmatical places of the holy scriptures, that can lead us into error, or into the belief of any thing that is false, or contrary to piety:- that Jesus Christ was absolutely infallible, as well as free from all sin, because of the Godhead that was always united to him, and which perpetually inspired him; insomuch, that all he taught is as certain as if God himself had pronounced:-and in the last place, that God did often dictate to the apostles the very words which they should use. These five heads are enough to believe. We allow in these things the authority of the holy scriptures, and they who affirm more are deceived (41) 221 .
[Page 471]
The case is the same as to differences, want of exactness, and small mistakes. We may justly celebrate the harmony or agreement[Page 472]
of the sacred writers, with regard to the principal transactions by them mentioned,[Page 473]
as a strong proof of the integrity of the evangelists, and of the certainty of the fact. This evinces the truth of christianity: but in matters of very small moment, we must allow a want of accuracy, or slips of memory, or different informations. This cannot hurt the authority of the gospels, as it proves the honesty of the writers by shewing they did not compose by compact: and I think, that some of the evangelists having been eye-witnesses of, and[Page 474]
actors in the facts of the several gospels; and others having written from the information of those who had got a perfect information of all things from the very beginning, is an argument solid and rational for the credibility of the evangelical history. It is sufficient. I am sure it is better to allow this, than to say the writers of the four gospels were mere organs, when the little omissions and inaccuracies observable in their records, cannot be accounted for, if we suppose that God conveyed the facts and truths through them, as pipes, to the world. It must needs be a perfect work, which the spirit of God directs.222 As to St. Mark and St. John's accounts, I see no contradiction in the relations. St. John says, (reckoning as the Romans did,[Page 475]
as he was then in Asia, and Jerusalem destroyed) that at the sixth hour, that is, six o'clock in the morning, he brought Jesus out to them again, the last time, and strove to mitigate the rage of the Jews, and save the life of Christ: but as this was what he could not do, he washed his hands before them all, to let them know he was not the author of the innocent man's death, and after that, delivered him up to the soldiers, to be crucified, when they had scourged him.When all this was done, (says St. Mark, reckoning in the Jewish manner), it was the third hour, that is, nine o'clock in the morning, and they crucified him. This perfectly reconciles the two evangelists. There is no sign of a contradiction in the places.223 As to St. Matthew and St. Mark's accounts of the resurrection of Jesus, they are not so free from obscurity, but I can see no inconsistency in them. If St. Matthew says, the Lord appeared to Mary Magdalene, and the other Mary, that might be, without a contradiction, tho' St. Mark says, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene. The case to me appears to be this. Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and the other women, went with spices and ointments to embalm the body, Sunday the 28th of April, early in the morning, about six and[Page 476]
thirty hours after it had been laid in the sepulchre, and when they arrived at the place, found not the body, but two angels, as young men in white apparel, who told them Jesus of Nazareth was risen to life again, as he himself foretold, and therefore they must make haste to his apostles, to acquaint them with the news, and let them know that they would see him in Galilee, according to his prediction. With these joyful tidings the women hastened away to the eleven disciples, and related to them what they had heard and seen. The apostles looked upon this account as a dream or vision; but however, on Mary Magdalene's assuring Peter and John apart, that she had really been in the tomb, and found it empty; from whence it was most certain, that either Jesus was risen, or they had removed his body; these apostles ran both to the sepulchre, and Mary Magdalene, went with them. Peter and John then saw, that it was as she had affirmed, and after they had viewed the tomb, the clothes, and the napkin, returned from the sepulchre, greatly wondering what was become of their master's body: but Mary continued at the monument, lamenting very greatly, that she could not see Jesus either alive or dead, and while she thus bemoaned herself, the Lord appeared to her. As St, Mark says, Jesus[Page 477]
appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had cast out seven devils: and after she had reverenced her dear Lord and Master, he bid her go immediately to his disciples, and tell them she had seen him: let them also know that I have assured thee, I shall quickly leave this world, and ascend to the God and Father of us all, my Father and your Father, my God and your God, unto those happy mansions where he manifests his presence in a most especial manner; there to receive full power over all things both in heaven and earth, and to prepare a place for you; that where I am, there ye may be also. Mary accordingly departed. She told the apostles that Jesus had appeared to her, and acquainted them with the joyful message.As to the other women, it is evident that they likewise went a second time to the sepulchre, to look for the body of their master, and having in vain searched for it, were returning to the apostles, to let them know they had enquired to no purpose, when Jesus himself met them, saying All hail. Does not this reconcile Mark's account with Matthew's? I think so. To me it is so very plain from what all the sacred relators have declared of the matter, that I am astonished how Jerom could be so perplexed with the[Page 478]
two accounts, as to say, that Mark's account, (the last twelve verses of his gospel) might be rejected here as spurious, because it was found only in a few copies of that gospel, and contradicted the other evangelists. Non recipimus Marci testimonium, quod in raris fertur evangeliis-præsertim cum diversa atque contraria evangelistis ceteris narrare videatur.In the next place, if the account I have given was liable to any objection, and you could shew me that it was not the truth of the case; which, at present, I think impossible: If it was evident from the gospels, that the women were not a second time at the tomb, but that Jesus appeared to Mary Magdalene and the other women, the first time they were all there together, yet this may be, as I apprehend, without Mark's contradicting Matthew. The meaning of the words of Mark ---he appeared first to Mary Magdalene- might be, that as she and the women were returning from the monument, to tell the news to the apostles, Jesus appeared to them, and in particular, addressed himself to Mary Magdalene; directing his discourse to her, and speaking familiarly and affectionately to her, to distinguish her as his constant follower in his life-time, and one on whom he had worked a great miracle of healing.[Page 479]
This, I imagine, might very justly be termed ---he appeared first to Mary Magdalene- To appear first to any one of a company, as I take it, is to come up to, or stand before some particular person, in order to speak to such person. This, in my imagination, removes the difficulty, and reconciles Mark to Matthew: but to this explication I prefer the women's being at second times at the sepulchre; that is, Mary Magdalene a second time, when Peter and John went to the tomb, on what she had earnestly told them apart: and afterwards, the other Mary, Salome, Joanna, etc. a second time. The gospels, in my opinion, make this very plain (42.) 224What has been said, (Mr. Berrisfort told me), seems plausible, and ought to satisfy every honest man. It gives me content: but there is one thing still that perplexes me,[Page 480]
and that is, the various lections of the New Testament. Do they not hurt the book?No: (Jack Buncle replied), notwithstanding the cry of infidels, and that some learned men of the church of Rome have endeavoured to shake the credit of the two testaments, and to bring the people to the papal chair, to know the truth, on account of the various readings; yet, nevertheless, they are rather an advantage and security to the sacred text than a detriment to the written word. They corroborate the authority of the sacred book, and give it additional advantages.It is a truth that there are many various readings in Terence, Livy, Virgil, Cæsar, Thucydides, Homer, Plutarch, etc. and yet who denies the genuineness and great use of those noble authors of sense and politeness? who is so hardy as to question whether the works universally ascribed to them be their own and the product of those immortal wits? On the contrary, men of thought and clear heads, conversant in those studies, will agree that those authors of antiquity of which there are the most various readings, are rendered the most pure and correct. And why should not the various readings of the bible rather lead men of sound learning and judgment to the true meaning of the divine writers, than endanger their mistaking their genuine language and sense.
[Page 481]
Where there are several readings, it is highly probable one of them is the original; and it is easier by their help to rectify the mistakes of some copies, for when we have only one manuscript, there may be scope for fancy; but none for judicious comparison and well-grounded criticism.Style and language may be distinguished by a happy genius of natural sagacity, improved by true learning and proper application, as well as statues, pictures, and medals. No age can counterfeit Cicero, Terence, St. Mark, St. John, St. Paul, no more than a counterfeit picture, medal, etc. can be imposed on, and deceive the compleat masters and judges of those ingenious professions and sciences.Secondly, there is nothing in the various lections that affects the essentials of religion, or can imply a considerable depravation of the copies, that alters or weakens one moral contained in the divine books. And therefore, though it cannot with reason be supposed, that God Almighty should work perpetual miracles to prevent the mistakes and blunders of every careless or corrupt hand, of those numerous transcribers of those sacred volumes, no more than by a resistless power and restraint to prevent all the errors and villanies committed by free and accountable creatures; yet the argument receives strength, that notwithstanding the innumerable[Page 482]
variations, mistakes and contradictions in small matters, the all-seeing eye of Providence has so watched his own blessed and glorious revelations to mankind, that all the transcripts of that divine volume agree in the essential doctrine and grand design of christianity. This is a truth that Infidels and Papists cannot disprove.I observe in the last place, that exclusive of the care of Providence, there could not possibly happen any detriment to our sacred records by various readings: for though in an innumerable number of copies of the gospel that were made before printing was known, and in the many translations of it into several languages, where the idioms are different, and the phrase may be mistaken, it was almost impossible there should not be various lections, and slips of amanuenses, yet the sacred volumes in the early ages of christianity, were disposed into innumerable hands, translated into so many languages, kept in so many libraries, churches, and in private families of believers, and so carefully preserved and revered as the authentic deeds and charters of eternal happiness, that they were not capable of being falsified.Nor could those inestimable copies, scattered as they were over the then discovered world, and in the noble language so universally known and acceptable, be liable to hazards, by sudden revolutions and public disasters;[Page 483]
because those convulsions and surprizing calamities, could not happen alike in every country at one time.Neither could a general corruption of manners, a spirit of profuseness or superstition, nor the wicked example, and strong influence of tyrannical princes, of an apostate clergy, and atheistical ministers of state, prevail over many distant and independant nations, to endeavour to corrupt and destroy their sacred book.On the contrary, we are to consider that christianity was the ecclesiastical law of all christian nations under the sun. The great law which assured to them their religious rights and properties, their claims and titles to immortality, to the inheritance of the saints in light, an inheritance incorruptible, undefiled, that fadeth not away, reserved for them in the heavens. Which, to every one that deserves the name of man and christian must be infinitely more dear than titles to lands on this earth. For men are naturally more watchful in a matter so dear to them, and every believer would think himself concerned, no more to let a change of consequence to pass uncorrected, than the children of this world, who are wisest in their generation, would overlook a flaw in deeds of sale, or contract, which would assert their title, and evacuate the main intention of making such indentures.
[Page 484]
The primitive christians must be supposed to be exceeding watchful and jealous that no corruption or abuses should be put on that sacred book, more dear and valuable to them than all other interests and treasures. When these brave champions of the cross were brought to the tribunals of the heathen persecutors, and were commanded to deliver their bible to the flames, they most courageously refused it, and gave their bodies to be burnt rather than the divine book.In short, it is easier to suppose, a new bible or a new statute book might be imposed at this time of day upon this nation, without discovery, than to suppose a forged gospel, a new testament corrupted so far as to be insufficient for the good ends Providence designed by it, could be imposed on the universal christian world. It is easier to suppose that any forgery might creep into the municipal law of any particular nation, than that all the nations, whither christianity is spread, should conspire in the corruption of the gospel: which most sacred institution is to all christians of infinitely greater concern and value than their temporal laws, and all the secular immunities and privileges which they secure to them.And without such a wicked consert, or such an astonishing carelessness and negligence in all christian people and nations supposed (which would be a monstrous supposition)[Page 485]
No such forgery, no such alteration of essentials could pass undiscovered in the gospel, which was spread in the hands, hearts, and memories of myriads of rational devout christians of all ranks, qualities and sex, was constantly read in private families, frequently explained in schools, and daily used in public divine offices. It was impossible then in the nature of things that there could be any such alterations or corruptions introduced into the sacred text as would affect its doctrines, morals, or truth of its historical relations, or defeat the blessed end and design of the gospel revelation in any period of time, from the beginning of christianity to this present age (43) 225 .And if from this unanswerable way of reasoning in defence of the genuine purity of[Page 486]
the sacred scriptures, we look next upon the Providence of the Great God in this important case, is it not consonant to sound sense, and the notions that rational creatures must have of the supreme and all-perfect Being, firmly to believe that the same goodness and providence, which took care for the writing, would likewise take care for preserving these inestimable books, so free at least from corruption, that they might be sufficient for the gracious ends for which they were written, and be able to make us wise to salvation? I think so. To me it is evident, that since infinite goodness was pleased to reveal a religion, that teaches men to know Jehovah to be the true God, and to know Jesus Christ, whom he hath sent; his providence must not only preserve the book on which the doctrine depends, but so secure it from corruption, as to render it a plain rule to mankind. While there is a providence, the holy scriptures will remain the sacred and unalterable standard of true religion.What you say (Mr. Berrisfort replied) seems to me to be true. I have nothing to object. But once more---let me ask you, in respect of the ascension, which followed the resurrection of Jesus, is it not very strange, that this is not mentioned by any of the apostles who are said to have been eye-witnesses of the fact, but Luke and Mark only are the relators of the thing, who were not apostles,[Page 487]
and had all they writ from the information of the apostles. If the apostles, Matthew and John, did really see with their eyes the Lord Jesus taken up from them into heaven, might we not expect, that they would write the history of that still more wonderful transaction, as well as they had so exactly related the resurrection of Jesus? for the men, who stood gazing up into heaven, after the Lord was carried up in a cloud (as Luke says they did) not to mention so very wonderful and interesting an affair in their gospels;- and men who did not see the thing, to relate it as part of the history they had received from the apostles;-this is what astonishes me. If it was a truth, surely so important a one ought not to be omitted by those who saw it: since Matthew and John did write histories of Christ, why should they be silent on this grand article, and take no notice of it in their records? What do you say to this?I will tell you, (I replied): in the first place, nostrum non est providentiæ divinæ rationes reddere. Placuit spiritui sancto ita dirigere calamos Matthæi et Joannis, ut narratione resurrectionis dominicæ evangelia sua concluderent. (Sic refert Philippus a Limborch). -It does not become us to call Providence to account, or assign the ways it ought to act in: infinite wisdom thought fit to appoint, that Matthew and John should[Page 488]
end their gospels with the relation of our Lord's resurrection: the resurrection demonstrated the divine mission of Jesus Christ. To it, as a proof the most valid, and unexceptionable, our Lord referred the Jews, and therefore, to it, as the great fundamental, Matthew and John appealed: they proved it by declaring that they had conversed with Jesus Christ after he arose from the sepulchre; and when that was proved, there could be no dispute about any thing else. The divinity of the christian religion, and the ascension and glory of their Lord, rest on this base. All the blessings likewise of the gospel, regeneration, our resurrection, and life eternal, are ascribed by the apostles, Peter and Paul, to the resurrection of Christ: and for these reasons, to be sure, when John had described his Lord's resurrection, he added, -and many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book-But these are written, that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing, ye might have life through his name. We must allow then, that the account of the ascension by Luke and Mark, may be authentic, tho' not mentioned by Matthew and John.In the next place, St. John is not totally silent as to the ascension of our Lord. In his sixth chapter, ver. 62. it is written- What and if ye shall see the Son of Man ascend[Page 489]
up where he was before? and in the 7th chapter, ver. 39th. But this spake he of the Spirit, which they that believe in him should receive. For the Holy Ghost was not yet given, because that Jesus was not yet glorified. Here most certainly the apostle speaks of the ascension of his Master, and tho' he did not write the history of it, yet, not obscurely, says the thing was to be; which confirms the accounts of St. Luke and St. Mark. And since, in the 14th and 15th chapters of St. John, ver. 16. 26. the apostle declares, that Jesus foretold he would send to them, his disciples, the Comforter or holy Spirit from the Father, after his ascension to heaven; and that the apostles demonstrated by miracles, after the death of their Lord, that they had received this Comforter or divine Spirit, it follows, that the ascension and glorification of Jesus is as much asserted and confirmed by the gospel of St. John, as if that apostle, like Luke, had writ the history of it. This is evident to me. I think it is not possible to dispute it.The sum of the whole is, that the prejudices of the pious, and the arts of the crafty and interested, have defaced the true gospel of Christ, and substituted human notions and consequences in the place of divine revelation: but let us strip the sacred records of the false glosses and systems, with which the theorists have covered it, and allow the[Page 490]
enemy, that the apostles, sometimes wanting the unerring spirit of their Master, were liable to slight mistakes, and inadvertencies, in the representation of ordinary events; that they did, sometimes, by too great an affection for their Master's doctrine, strain some things, and cite prophecies that did not relate to Jesus in any sense at all (44) 226 ;-[Page 491]
let this be done to remove incumbrances, to clear up difficulties, and to answer objections otherwise unanswerable, and the writings of[Page 492]
the apostles will appear to be a globe of light from heaven; to irradiate the human understanding, and conduct the sons of men[Page 493]
to the realms of bliss. Their lessons are the dictates of the Spirit of God: their sanctions are of such force, in a certainty of future judgment and retribution,[Page 494]
that they incline a rational to have a serious regard to them.In a word, the religion of nature is perfect, but men are imperfect, and therefore[Page 495]
it pleased God to send our Saviour into the world, to republish the law of reason by his preaching, and in the writings of the apostles, and by him to give many motives to men, to incite them to perform their duty, as set forth in his written laws, and in the more striking example of our Lord, his only-begotten Son. Let us be christians then, my dear Bob, and adore the divine goodness, for the life eternal prepared for the righteous, as declared in the sacred records. Let us hearken to the apostles, (who, knowing the terror of the Lord, persuade men), and so govern and conduct ourselves by the rules of revelation, that when the man Christ Jesus, who appeared in the world to redeem us, will return to judge us by the gospel, we may ascend with him to the unbounded regions of eternal day, and in ever-blooming joys, live for ever in the presence of God. -I have done. Where you think I am wrong, you will be pleased to say.
[Page 496]
My friend replied, that he had no objection to make: he was quite satisfied; and obliged to me for my advice. Thus ended the conversation between Bob Berrisfort and Jack Buncle.94.227 The 3d day of July, I left Yeoverin-Green, and set out again for Ulubræ, to get my horses and portmanteau, but proceeded now on foot; because, by climbing over a high mountain, which it was impossible for a horse to ascend, and then walking half a mile over a shaking-bog, where a beast could not go, I was to save many miles; and beside, Mr. Berrisfort was so obliging as to send one of his servants back with Mr. Harcourt's horses, which I knew not which way to return. With my pole in my hand then I set out, and after I had bid adieu to my friends, who walked with me a couple of miles to the foot of the hills, I began to mount the Alp at Six in the morning, and at eight arrived on its summit. Here I had a fine road, due south, for an hour, till I came to a very steep descent, that led to the shaking-bog, as my paper of directions informed me. It was an ugly way down, and the better to go it, I resolved first to breakfast, and bid Tim see what he had got in his wallet. Immediately he produced a roast fowl, a manchet, and a bottle of cyder, and among some trees, on the brow of a hill, by the[Page 497]
side of a spring, that ran off the Way I was to go, I sat down to the repast. I gave my Lad half the Bird, and the other half I dispatched in a very short Time, drank a Pint of Cyder, and was on my Feet again. I then began to descend, and in an Hour made a Shift to get to the bottom, tho' the way was bad; being very steep, wet, and slippery. I came to a dirty lane, about two hundred yards long, and that ended at the shaking-bog.95.228 This kind of bog I take to be an abyss of standing water, covered with a thin arch of earth, that is, a water communicating with the abyss so covered, or weakly vaulted over: and of this opinion I find the right reverend Erich Pontoppidan is, in his natural history of Norway. The bishop does not tell his reason for so thinking; but mine is, that I have seen in Ireland the arches of several of those bogs broken, and a deep unfathomable water at some distance from the arch. They are very dangerous, frightful places, and many of them play up and down, like a long plank, in a very surprizing Manner.96.229 To go half a Mile over such a bog, and the most elastic of them I had ever tried, was what I did not much like; tho' the author of my paper of directions, an old servant of Mr. Berrisfort, affirmed it was quite safe; and as to Tim, he would not,[Page 498]
on any consideration, cross it. He was positive we should sink beyond Recovery. What to do then, was the question? I tried for some Time to go round the bog, at the bottom of the enclosing mountains, but that was soon found impossible, and therefore, it only remained, to go up again to the top of the hill, and try onwards for some other descent beyond the bog. We did so, and after walking two hours south-west, at a good rate, had a view of a deep glin, to which we descended by an easy slope, and marched thro' it, to the west, and north-west for two hours, till it ended at a wood. This we passed without any difficulty, as there were walks cut through it, and came out into a broad valley, that had a river very near us, and a sweet pretty cottage on the margin of the flood. I went up to the house to ask my way, and found at the door three men, the eldest of whom seemed to be about thirty years old. They asked me very civilly to walk in, and seemed to wonder not a little at seeing me and my man, in such a place, with our poles in our hands.97.230 These Men were three brothers, and Roman catholics. Two of them were gentlemen-farmers, who lived together, and jointly managed the country business. The eldest was a Franciscan frier, who came to visit them. Their good manners, in their plain dress, surprized me; and their benevolence, made me wonder a great deal more. Their maid[Page 499]
laid a clean cloth in a minute, and brought some cold roast beef, good bread, and fine ale. They bid me heartily welcome many times, and were so frank and generous, so chearful and gay; especially the eldest of the farmers, who sang several good songs over a bowl of punch after dinner, that I could not think of leaving them immediately, if I had known my road, and was easily prevailed on to stay several days. A friendship commenced immediately between the eldest Fleming and me, and there was not one cold or cross minute in it for the few years that he lived. He loved me as his brother from the first day he saw me, and I had so great a regard for him, that with a sorrow I cannot help, I think of his death to this day. How to account for such sudden passions I know not. The thing has always appeared to me very strange. Mr. Fleming to be sure was a man of a bright and very extraordinary understanding, though no more than a farmer in this world, had a most happy temper, a generosity too great for his fortune, and was for ever chearful and free; but these things, however pleasing, could not be the cause of the sudden and lasting friendship between us, as I have been acquainted with men of fortune who equalled him in these respects, and yet they never struck me more than for the present Time. Whatever might be the cause, the fact is[Page 500]
certain. No two men ever liked one another more than we did from the first hour of our acquaintance, and as I had the happiness of converting him to the protestant religion, it is possible, that might cement a friendship, which, a sameness of disposition had helped to produce (44.) 231 . This is all I can say as to[Page 501]
the reason of this matter. In respect of the thing, it was of the greatest service to me. My new acquired friend assisted me to the utmost of his power, in the accomplishment[Page 502]
of my designs, in that part of the world I then was. I had his head, his hand, and his house at my service, and by them I was enabled to give a roundness to a system, that was too happy to last long.98.232 But as to the shaking bog I was to have passed to go to the gentlemen at Ulubræ Fleming told me, I had a fortunate escape in not venturing over it; for, tho' it be passable in one narrow way, about a yard broad, yet a stranger to the bog must perish in attempting to cross; as the timber causeway that was made over the great marsh, time out of mind, is invisible in many places, and one sinks for ever, the moment he steps off that way: but I will shew you an easy road (my new friend continued) to the gentlemen's house, to whom I am no stranger, and will make you acquainted with some passes thro' the mountains, that will render it easier riding over this country than you have found it. He did so, and by his guidance I arrived at Ulubræ, the 7th day of July; being the 17th day from the morning I left the philosophers. The gentlemen were startled at the sight of me, as they concluded I had perished, and had, as they assured me,[Page 503]
mourned my sad fate: they were impatient to hear the adventure of the mountain, and by what strange means, I was jumbled all the way to Tom Fleming's; who lives so far from the hill I went into; and the road from it to his house, scarce passable for a mortal. Inform us, we beseech you, how these strange things came to pass.Gentlemen, I said, I am extremely obliged to you for your concern for me, and will tell you my story as soon as we have dined, as the servants are now bringing the dishes in, and accordingly, when we had done, I gave them a relation in detail. They were greatly pleased with my history, and much more, to have me returned to them in safety again. If they had not seen me, they said, they could not believe the thing, and they would order the whole account to be entered in the journal of their society, as the most extraordinary case they had ever known: or, perhaps, should ever hear related again. Their secretary, as directed, writ it down in the big book of transactions, and it remains in their records to this day. - In short, reader, these worthy men were so greatly rejoiced at my being alive, when they thought me for certain among the dead, that they put the bottle round in a festal manner after dinner. We drank and laughed till it was midnight.99.233 The 8th day of July, I took my[Page 504]
leave of the gentlemen at Ulubræ, and proceeded to the East-riding of Yorkshire, to look for Miss Melmoth. Fleming came with me as far as Eggleston to shew me the passes between the hills, and the best ways over the mountains. Many vast high ones we crossed, and travelled through very wonderful glins. Several scenes were as charming as any I had before seen, and the low ways as bad; but he knew all the roads and cross turnings perfectly well, and shortned the journey a great many miles. I had told him the business I was going on, and he requested, if I succeeded, that I would bring Miss Melmoth to his house, that his brother might marry us; and as to Orton-Lodge, which I had described to him, and told him where to find, (for he had no notion of it, nor had ever been among the fells of Westmoreland; as he thought that country unpassable), he promised me, he would go there himself, and bring with him two labouring men to assist my lad, in putting the garden and house in the best condition they were capable of receiving; that he would bring there seeds, and trees, such as the season allowed, and do every thing in his power, to render the place convenient and pleasing: he would likewise sell me a couple of his cows, a few sheep, and other things, which I should find before me at the lodge, and let me have one of his maids for my servant in[Page 505]
the house. This was good indeed. I could not wish for more.100.234 The 9th of July, early in the morning, Fleming and I parted, and I proceeded as fast as well I could to the appointed station: but when I came up to Mrs. Asgill's door, the 2d day in the evening, July 10, and asked for Miss Melmoth, an old man, the only person in the house, told me, Mrs. Asgill had been dead near a month, and Miss Melmoth went from thence immediately after the funeral of her friend; that she had left a letter with him for a gentleman that was to call upon her; but that letter by an accident was destroyed, and where the lady then was, he could not so much as guess: he farther told me, that Miss Melmoth had sold the goods of the house, and the stock, bequeathed to her by her deceased friend, to the gentleman who inherited the late Mrs. Asgill's jointure, and she would return no more to the place. This was news to me. It struck me to the soul. Doleful tidings, how ye wound. What to do I could not tell, but as I rid to the next town, determined at last, to try if I could hear of her at York. To that city I went the next day, asked at the inns, walked the walls, and went to the assembly-room. My enquiries were all in vain. One gentleman only did I see who was acquainted with her, and he knew nothing of her present abode. From York then I proceeded the next morning[Page 506]
to search other towns, and left no place unexamined where I could think she might be. Three weeks were spent in this manner, without hearing a syllable of her, and then I thought it was best to return to my lodge; for what signified my five hundred pounds to appear with in the world. It must be soon gone as I had not the least notion of any kind of trade; and if I joined any one that was in business, I might be mistaken in the man, and so cheated and undone. Then what could I do but carry a brown musket, or go a hand before the mast; for, as to being an usher to a school for bread, were I reduced to want, that was the life of all lives that I most abhorred. Nothing else then had I for it but my silent mountain-lodge, which kind providence had brought me to. There I resolved to go, and in that charming solitude, peruse alone the book of nature, till I could hear of some better way of spending my time.101.235 To this purpose then I went the 2d of August, 1725, to Barnard's Castle in Durham, and intended the next morning to set out for Mr. Fleming's house in Stanemore, to go from thence to my cottage on the side of a Westmorland-Fell: but after I had rid a mile of the road to Eggleston, where I purposed to dine, I called out to my lad to stop. A sudden thought came into my head, to ride first to Gretabridge, as I was so near it,[Page 507]
to see some fine Roman monuments, that are in the neighbourhood of that village. To that place I went then, and passed the day in looking over all the antiquities and curiosities I could find there. I returned in the evening to my inn, and while a fowl was roasting for my supper, stood leaning against the house-door, looking at several travellers that went by, and some that came to rest where I did that night. Many figures I beheld, but none I knew. At last there came riding up to the inn, full speed, a young lady on a most beautiful beast, and after her, two horses more; on one of which was her man servant, and on the other her maid. She had a black mask on her face, to save her from the dust and sun, and when she lit from her horse, she did not take it off, but went with it on into the house, after she had looked for a moment or two at me. This I thought very strange. A charmer to be sure, I said. With what life and grace did she come to the ground! but how cruel the dear little rogue is, to conceal the wonders of its face. Landlord, I said to the master of the house, who was coming up to me, can you contrive a way to get me one view of that masked lady, and I will give you a pint. -Sir, mine host replied, that I can do very easily, for this lady has sent me to let you know, she wants to speak with you-[Page 508]
with me! -Transporting news! I flew to her apartment, and there saw that dear irresistable creature, who had added to the inferior charms of face and person, that wisdom and goodness of conduct and conversation, which are the true glory of a woman. It was Miss Melmoth. She had heard I had been at Mrs. Asgill's house, and did not get the letter she left for me; which made her think of riding towards Gretabridge, on an imagination she might find me thereabout; as she remembered to have heard me say, in one of our conversations, that I intended as soon as I could, to look at the Roman antiquities in this place: but she had very little hopes (she added) of succeeding in her enquiry; as little as I had of her riding up to the inn; and this made the meeting the more pleasing. It did enhanse the pleasure indeed. It turned the amour into an adventure, and gave it that delicious flavor, which the moderns read of in the histories of past times, but rarely experience in these days. The reader that has been engaged in such a wonderful, and tender scene, can only form an idea of a felicity, which words would in vain attempt to express.As soon as we had supped, I recited my adventures since we parted, and gave Miss Melmoth a flowery description of Orton-Lodge; then asked, if she would bless me with her[Page 509]
hand, and sit down with me in my pretty solitude.Sir, (Miss Melmoth replied), if you required it, I would go with you to Hudson's-Bay, had I a hundred thousand, instead of four thousand pounds; which is my fortune, exclusive of some personal estate, which my friend Mrs. Asgill by her will bequeathed me; and the whole is at your service, to dispose of as you please.Give me thy hand then (I said,) thou generous girl. You make me the happiest of men, and in return I swear by that one, supreme, tremendous Power I adore, that I will be true and faithful to thee, till death dissolves the sacred obligation. Twice do I swear by the great Spirit, in whose dread presence I am, with your right hand now locked fast in mine, across this table, and call on him as witness to our vows, that neither time, nor chance, nor aught but death's inevitable hand, shall e'er divide our loves. Miss Melmoth said, Amen.102.236 Early the next morning, the third of August, we rid to Eggleston, where we breakfasted, and proceeded from thence to Mr. Fleming's house, up Stanemore hills, where we arrived at nine o'clock in the evening, and had beds there that night. My friend Tom and his brother Jemmy, were gone to a fair; but the eldest brother,[Page 510]
the Franciscan fryer, was at home, and entertained us very well. We took him with us very early the next day to Orton-Lodge, which we reached at eight in the evening, and found the house and garden in good order. My friend, Mr. Fleming, had done every thing possible, to make it a convenient and comfortable place. He had made near the Lodge two little rooms for servants, and had put a bed in the green-house in the garden for a friend. He had likewise sent there a couple of cows, some sheep and lambs, ducks and geese, cocks and hens, and every necessary he thought we might want there. Good Tom Fleming. There never was a better man, or a kinder friend, to his small power.We had likewise fish in abundance, in the waters at the foot of our hills, and goats and kids, and plenty of wild fowl. Few things were wanting that reason could desire; and for us, who thought that happiness, that is, pleasure and repose, did not precariously depend on what others think, or say, or do; but solidly consisted in what we ourselves did feel, and relish, and enjoy, there could not be a more delightful station discovered on this globe.To conclude, the best things that Orton-Lodge afforded, were ordered to the fire, and before they were brought on the table, the[Page 511]
man of God threw the fillet or ribband over our hands, according to the Romish manner, and pronounced the nuptial benediction on us. Husband and wife we sat down to supper.

Thus did the stars preside with friendly rays,And bid me hail at last the happy days,When sheltered within this wild retreat,Above the scorn, below the rage of fate;Blest in a wife, a friend, and books, alone;To this mad world, and all its plagues unknown;The smooth-pac'd hours did sweetly pass away,And happy nights still clos'd each happy day.



FINIS.


[Page -]

ADVERTISEMENT.Next winter will be printed the second volume of Mr. Buncle's life; containing his transactions and remarks in various parts of the world;-his voyage to the South seas;-and many wonderful changes and chances he met with in the space of twenty years.The Appendix, mentioned several times in the first volume, will be added to the second, and contain the following pieces. - No. 1. Remarks on Lord Nottingham's letter to Mr. Whiston; being an apology for the author's religious principles, which he gave in to his father. -No. 2. An answer to the Rev. Dr. Smith's third section of his book, called, A clear and comprehensive view of the being, nature, and attributes of God. - No. 3. A reply to Miss Harcourt's vindication of Athanasian religion; which converted her from the general Apostacy to that pure gospel theism, which preserves the supreme majesty of our heavenly Father, and denies an equal to the God over all Gods, the God and Father of our Lord Jesus. - No. 4. A conversation with Father Fleming, a Franciscan fryer, concerning the doctrines of the church of Rome; which converted his brother, Mr. Thomas Fleming, to the religion of protestants. -No. 5. A dissertation on the antediluvians.
[Page -]

Vol. 2Title PageTHE LIFE OF John Buncle, Esq; CONTAINING Various Observations and Reflections, Made in several Parts of the World, AND Many Extraordinary Relations.
?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????-??????????????????????????????????????????????????????? &c.Arr. Epict. L. III. C. 22. Enchirid. C. 23.
VOL. II.
LONDON: Printed for J. Johnson and B. Davenport, at the Globe in Pater-Noster Row. MDCCLXVI.


[Page -]

ADVERTISEMENT.In a book published in the year 1756, I related the principal transactions of my life, from my entrance into the university to the day of my marriage, in the year 1725; and endeavoured, by the way, to entertain my Readers with a variety of notions and remarks.I now proceed to tell the remainder of my story, and to lay before the Public some more of my observations and hints: This second volume is chiefly a further vindication of myself; and the observations I add on subjects and matters of various kinds, are such reflections as resulted from the reason and nature of things, and were formed by a judgment free, and unbiassed by[Page -]
any authority. My own apology is the principal thing, interspersed with real characters of several sorts; and the additions to it, are as many solid, natural, and delicate adventitious things as came in my way. This is my book. I write with modesty, and I purpose to do good. I imagine then, that all Critics (except the Critical Reviewers) will wink at the blemishes of a laudable writing. Scholars and men of sense (who are above malevolence and the supercilious temper,) can bear deformities in a long work, and justly lay them on the imperfection of human nature. They know it is incapable of faultless productions.Felices.
[Page -]

CONTENTS.
[Editorial note: 1Kb][ The following list of numbered, thematic sections is not consistent with the numbered divisions appearing in the text which have been captured as chapter divisions. ]
N. B. What refers to the Notes is distinguished thus ( ).
1 The author's apology for the married state
Page 1
2 The history of Orlando and Belinda, rectified from a mistake in the Tatler
2
3 The author's apology for the married state continued
11
4 The author's manner of living at Orton-lodge
14
5 Description of Glencrow water-falls, and of the great age and size of carp and tench in a fenny water near Orton-lodge

15

6 Farther account of uncommonly large carp and tench

16

7 (1 Description of the black cock, the moor cock, and the cock of the woods)

17

8 The author loses his wife Charlotte, his friend Tom Flemming, and others

18

9 A reflexion on death
19
10 The author departs from Orton-lodge, to try his fortune once more

24

11 Finds a delightful spot among the fells of Westmoreland

25

12 His description of Basil groves, the seat of Charles Henley, Esq; and of the library and skeleton there

25

13 His description of John Henley, Esq;
32
14 His description of Miss Statia Henley, and his conversation with John Henley, Esq;

33


[Page -]

15 The author's account of himself to John Henley, Esq;

35

16 Mr. Henley's reply to his story, and commendation of him for his sentiments in religious matters

37

17 The history of Charles Henley, Esq; and of his beautiful daughter Statia

38

18 J. Henley, Esq; offers his grand-daughter (Miss Statia) in marriage to the author

40

19 The author's reply on the occasion
41
20 His stay and manner of living at Basilgrove. -The death of Mr. Henley, and Miss Statia's behaviour thereupon

42

21 Conversation between him and Miss Henley on the subject of matrimony

44

22 (2. The author's reflexions on celibacy and marriage)

48

23 Miss Henley's answer to the author's remarks in favour of marriage

49

24 The author marries Miss Statia Henley
51
25 They repair to Orton-lodge.-Statia dies there

52

26 The author leaves Orton-lodge, and sets out for Harrogate spaw.-Description of the romantic country over which he travelled

53

27 Description of a society of protestant married friars in Westmoreland, and of the regularity of their lives

54

28 Some thoughts on the institution of married regulars, exploding the doctrine of celibacy

56

29 The author's farther account of the married regulars he met with among the fells of[Page -]
Westmoreland, with their form of morning prayer

60

30 Their prayer for night
65
31 The author's observation on the prayers of those recluses, and their account of their belief, which is unitarian

67

32 A reflection on true and false religion
71
33 Thoughts exploding the invocation of saints
79
34 (3. A short account of the councils, and of the several editors and editions of them)

79

35 Some further remarks on the doctrine of the invocation of saints, shewing the absurdity of papists therein

91

36 The author leaves the religious in Westmoreland, and proceeds on his journey to Harrogate.-Misses his way

98

37 Description of a little country seat in the northern extremity of Stanmore, and of a sleeping parlour in a grove

101

38 Where the author passes the night
102
39 Receives the next day some account of Miss Antonia Cranmer, a beautiful young lady of great fortune, mistress of that house

103

40 The author resolves, if possible, to get her. -His manner of living for several days in the cottage of a poor fisherman, in expectation of the return of the beautiful Antonia from Cumberland

104

41 Description of a charming little country seat, where a solitary gentleman lived

105

42 Some account of this gentleman, Doric Watson, who had been bred a catholic[Page -]
in France, and became a protestant hermit in England, with the motives for his conversion

106

43 The hermit's observations on Cardinal Bellarmine's notes of the church, shewing them not to be at all applicable to the church of Rome

107

44 (7. An abstract of Dr. Chandler's observations on Bellarmine's sixth note of the church

109

45 Remarks on the Abbé Le Blanc, and on his letters on the English nations, with some strictures on Voltaire, and a defence of the English reformation

115

46 (9. Some account of the character and writings of Mons. Bouhier, president of the French academy)

118

47 The marriage of priests defended, and shewn to have been the primitive doctrine of the church

126

48 The beginning of the author's acquaintance with Miss Antonia Cranmer, and how it ended in a marriage

134

49 (10. Some remarks on the absurdity of transubstantiation)
134
50 The author buries his wife Antonia, and hastens to Harrogate to dissipate his grief.-His reason for not mentioning his children by his many wives

137

51 Description of Harrogate; of it's wells, and of the company there, with their manner of living; the nature and quality of these waters, for what disorders fittest, and the same of several other mineral waters

139


[Page -]

52 The author meets at Harrogate six gentlemen of his acquaintance from Dublin

146

53 Their characters
147
54 The history of the unfortunate Miss Hunt
166
55 The picture of Miss Hunt, and her unhappy end

157

56 The author falls in love with Miss Spence
162
57 An apology for the author's marrying so often
163
58 Miss Spence's reply to his addresses
167
59 The author removes to Oldfield spaw, on account of an indisposition occasioned by a night's hard drinking, and his reflections on hard drinking

171

60 Description of Oldfield spaw, with an account of it's water

173

61 An observation on our people of fortune going to other countries to drink mineral waters

174

62 An account of Moffat wells, and of the virtues of these waters

174

63 The author sets out from Oldfield spaw for Knaresborough, but arrives at another place.-A morning thought on the rising sun

178

64 Description of a beautiful spot and charming country seat, in the west riding of Yorkshire

180

65 An account of two wonderful figures which played on the German flute

181

66 The history of Miss Wolfe, who had known the author in Ireland, and recollects him

182


[Page -]

67 An account of Oliver Wincup, Esq; with whom the author accidentally becomes acquainted

184

68 And goes with him to his seat, called Woodcester-house
185
69 The manner of living at Woodcester
186
70 An account of a company of strolling players at Woodcester

187

71 The author leaves Woodcester, and rides to a lone silent place, called Lasco

189

72 The history of two rich beauties, immured in a lone-house, in a wood near Lasco

190

73 Character of their guardian, Jeremiah Cock, an old lawyer

191

74 The author gets acquainted with him, and dines at his house

194

75 Description of old Cock the lawyer
196
76 The author finds means to propose to the ladies to carry them off

198

77 They agree to it, and he carries them off
199
78 Is puzzled how to dispose of them
202
79 Carries them to Orton-lodge
205
80 The author's departure from Orton-lodge, where he leaves his two young heiresses: misses his way a second time; description of the country

210

81 Description of Mrs. Thurloe's seat in Westmoreland
213
82 An account of the two Miss Thurloes
214
83 Account of a Carthusian monastery in Richmondshire
216
84 Reasons for reading the works of the Rabbies, fictitious and extravagant as they are

217


[Page -]

85 (11. An account of the Talmuds
225
86 An account of Knaresborough and it's waters. -The fall and death of Gaveston

225

87 Description of the dropping well near Knaresborough
227
88 Observations on petrifying waters
228
89 (12. Etymology of the word Postilla)
231
90 An account of Wardrew sulphur-water, and a description of Wardrew in Northumberland

232

91 The history of Claudius Hobart, a recluse
233
92 Who gives the author a manuscript, intitled, The Rule of Reason, with a few thoughts on religion

236

93 Specimens of this tract, viz. Discourse on the rule of reason

237

94 Account of revelation
240
95 Of the mysteries, Trinity, and sacrifice of the cross

243

96 Defence of the Socinians
246
97 An account of Socinus
255
98 The author returns to Harrogate, and from thence goes to Cleator in Westmoreland, to wait upon Miss Spence

259

99 (13. An excellent morning and evening prayer, with observations thereon)

260

100 The author's reception by Miss Spence
261
101 Manner in which he passed the evening at Cleator the first night he was there

264

102 Conversation between the author and Miss Spence's uncle, a clergyman, relating to the revolution, and exclusion of James II.

270


[Page -]

103 A description of Cleator
277
104 Character of Miss Maria Spence
278
105 A reflection on the education of women
281
106 The author's departure from Cleator to London, in company with Miss Spence

282

107 A discourse on fluxions, between Miss Spence and the author

284

108 An account of Martin Murdoch, Miss Maria Spence's preceptor in the mathematics, and his method of instructing her

290

The author's marriage with Miss Spence
300
109 Her death, and the author's behaviour thereupon

301

110 (14. Some account of the philosopher Cleanthes)
301
111 The case of a lady (the author's wife) in a fever, and an account of four physicians who attended her

303

112 Moral thoughts; written by Miss Spence, viz.



Of Morality
311
Of Religion
316
Of Reason and Truth
318
Of Integrity
319
Of Priest-craft in the transmission of moveables, from the dead to the living

321

Of the Athanasian creed
324
Of Faith
326
Avoidings.-The offices of a christian
330
The meaning of John, chap. vi. v. 44

Of Baptisms in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit

332


[Page -]

Of Christian idolatry.-Churchism and creeds

333

113 An account of Richmond the beau, and old Ribble the chymist

334

114 The picture of beau Richmond
337
115 The picture of a temperate man born with a consumption

338

116 A history of metals.-What phlogisson is,
340
What semi-metals are.-The nature and composition of antimony; what butter of antimony is

341

Liver of antimony.-How antimony separates gold from other metals

342

The excellence of antimonial wine
343
The nature of bismuth
344
An extraordinary sympathetic ink
345
Of zinc.-Of the nature of regulus of arsenic

347

The characters of gold
348
The wonderful ductility of gold
353
117 Mr. Ribble's conclusion, containing his thoughts and advice concerning riches

358

118 A charming vale and country house in Nottinghamshire, the seat of Mr. Monckton

362

119 Character of Mr. Monckton
363
120 The author baits at a lone inn, where arrives the beautiful Miss Turner of Skalsmore vale

368

121 The picture of Miss Turner
369
122 The author's address to Miss Turner
370
123 Miss Turner's answer to the author, and their marriage

371


[Page -]

124 The unfortunate death of Miss Turner, the author's fifth wife

375

125 (15. Some account of the temple of Jupiter Ammon)

ibid

126 (16. The story of Homonæa and Atimetus; and the epitaph of Homonæa at large)

377

127 The picture and character of Curl the bookseller
382
128 The picture of Carola Bennet
384
129 History of Miss Bennet
386
130 A description of a London convent, and an adventure there

387

131 The history of Miss Bennet continued
390
132 A reflexion on hypocrites
392
133 The Rev. Mr. Tench's conversation with Miss Bennet, in relation to religion, and her conversion

395

134 A reflexion on the conversion of Miss Bennet

400

135 Two Irish gentlemen carry the author to a gaming-table, where he loses all his fortune

402

136 Curl's scheme for the author to carry off an heiress, which he does effectually, and by what means

404

137 The picture of Miss Dunk
409
138 Supposed death of Miss Dunk, and her burial by the author

412

139 A winter night-scene on the mountains of Westmoreland

413

140 The author arrives at Dr. Stainvil's house, and is introduced to the doctor and company

414

141 Surprising story of Mrs. Stainvil, who[Page -]
proves to be the lately buried Miss Dunk

415

142 A reflexion on Miss Dunk's marrying Dr. Stainvil

410

143 The author's departure from Dr. Stainvil's house

421

144 Some observations on Mrs. Stainvil's coming to life again, after being taken out of the grave

422

145 The legend on the monument of Homonæa translated into English

424

146 (17. Strictures on the Rev. Mr. Collier's translation of the mythological picture of Cebes, and another promised)

428

147 (18. Anecdote of the great Prince of Condé)
429
148 The author puts up at an inn, where he is informed of an old acquaintance of his, Dr. Fitzgibbons, who lived hard by

431

149 Is most graciously received by the doctor, and why

432

150 The picture of Miss Julia Fitzgibbons
437
151 The author marries Miss Fitzgibbons, his seventh wife

439

152 And studies physic in a private manner, by which a gentleman, with the purchase of a diploma, may turn out doctor, as well as if he went to Padua, to hear Morganni. -The method of study described, with some account of the best writers, and best editions of their works

440

153 (20. Anecdote concerning the great anatomist Vesalius)

448

154 A translation of the Table of Cebes, compared[Page -]
with the Rev. Mr. Collier's translation of the same

453

155 (21. A remark on the Table of Cebes)
476
156 The unfortunate death of the author's wife Julia

479

157 His reflexion on that loss
482
158 His thoughts on wives and whores
483
159 The author returns to Orton-lodge, in hopes of finding the two heiresses he had left there

485

160 But finds only a letter of thanks for his civilities, and no indication of the place they were gone to

486

161 The history of the beautiful and excellent Leonora, and of the barbarous treatment she met with from an Irish villain whom she had married

488

162 A reflexion on popery
492
163 (23. An address to the protestant ladies of Great-Britain, warning them against the dangers of popery, and of popish husbands)

493

164 A remark on the unfortunate Leonora
498
165 The tenth satire of Juvenal, translated into English verse

499

166 (24. Bishop Burnet's opinion of the excellence of this satire, and the author's consequent reflexions)

510

167 The author visits again Dr. Stainvil and his lady

513

168 Discourse between Dr. Stainvil and the author, concerning the manner in which the Spanish fly acts on the human body when applied in blisters

514


[Page -]

169 Dr. Stainvil's sudden death by an apoplexy; cause of apoplexies; and a reflexion on death

516

170 Short examination of the sentiments of Wollaston, Burnet, Caleb Fleming, Dr. Edmund Law, and Bishop Sherlock, concerning the state of departed souls

518

171 The character of Dr. Stainvil
520
172 (25 and 26. Encomium of Dr. Law, and character of Bishop Sherlock and Bishop Hoadley, with some account of their writings)

520

173 The author's remarks on the sleeping and the conscious schemes, concerning departed souls

522

174 Mrs. Stainvil's behaviour on the death of her husband.-The author marries her, and they set out for Ireland to pay a visit to his father

523

175 The author finds his father become as strict an unitarian as himself

524

176 Death of the author's father.-The author returns to England with his wife

525

177 The author's wife dies, and he goes to sea as captain of a little ship of his own; sails to the South-seas, China, and very many other places, returns to Europe, after having spent nine years in travelling, and promises an account of his observations in a future work

526

178 (27 and 28. Remarks on Dr. Cheyne, and on Mr. William Law, the nonjuror, father of our methodists, and disciple of the famous Jacob Behmen)

528


[Page -]

179 The author purchases a little villa near London, and retires thither to indulge his contemplative disposition

529

180 His praise of our king and present ministry
530


ERRATA.Page 8. l. 29. read shared. I remember. p. 16. l. 16. after then add they. p. 46. l. 11. for bare read bear. p. 53. l. 17. of the marginal notes, for dedica read dediée. p. 80. l. 23. for 1742 read 1472. p. 82. l. 9. for Regulieres read Reguliers. p. 82. l. 23. dele the comma after John, and place it after first. p. 83. l. 18. for Meux read Meaux. p. 85. l. 10. for Marcien read Marcian. p. 96. l. 20. for patrum read patrem. p. 102. l. 17. for lit read lits. p. 118. l. 26. after avoir add pour, and l. 29. for varron read Varron. p. 199. l. 6. for it read them. p. 208. l. 7. for mere read perfect. p. 217. l. 7. for St. Benet read St. Bruno. p. 220. l. 13. for keeping read keep. p. 238. l. 22. for resentments read sensations. p. 265. l. 21. for 250 read 240. p. 343. l. 27. for lasts read leasts. p. 344. l. 17. for purges read purge. p. 354. l. 29. after cover add the. p. 355. l. 3. for is read are. p. 380. l. 5. for quit read qui, and for mens read m'en. p. 386. l. 28. for mere read perfect. p. 517. l. 24. for teterrimi read teterrima. p. 527. l. 23. for was read were.
[Page 1]
THE LIFE OF John Buncle, Esq; PART II.
SECTION I.


Felices homines! quos stricto fœdere jungit,Et socios natura facit! sic cura levatur!Sic augentur opes! sic mutua gaudia crescunt!
Thompson's Tuphlo-pero-gamia* 238 .
That is,


Go, happy pair! in strictest bonds ally'd!Whom nature joins, and can, alone, divide:'Tis thus, their riches, and their joys increase,Their cares grow lighter, and they smile in peace.
§. 1.239 When I consider how happy I have been in the married state, and in a succession of seven wives, never had one uneasy hour; that even a Paradise, without an Eve, would[Page 2]
have been a wilderness to me; that the woods, the groves, the walks, the prospects, the flowers, the fruits, the day, the night, all would have wanted a relish, without that dear, delightful companion, a wife; it amazes me to hear many sensible people speak with abhorrence of matrimony, and insist upon it, that wedlock produces so many troubles, even where the pair have affection, and sorrows so very great, when they have no love for each other, or begin to fail in the kind and obliging offices, that it is contrary to reason to contract, if we have a just regard to peace and satisfaction of mind, and would avoid, as much as possible, the woes and bewailings of this turbid period. If you have acquired the divine habits, marriage may unhinge them. It often forces even the pious into immoralities. True, unhappy are many a wedded pair: years of calamity this engagement has produced to thousands of mortals: it has made the most pious divines become very cruel, as I could relate: it has caused the most generous, sensible men, to murder the women they adored before they were their wives.The History of Orlando and Bellinda.
§. 2.This story has been told before by the Tatler, in his 172d paper; but as he has[Page 3]
related only by hear say, and was mistaken in several particulars, the account I give of this extraordinary affair, may be grateful to the reader.When I was a little boy in Dublin, between seven and eight, Mr. Eustace and his Lady lived next door to my father, in Smithfield, and the two families were intimate. Being a lively prating thing, Mrs. Eustace was fond of me, and by tarts and fruit, encouraged me to run into her parlour as often as I could. This made me well acquainted in the house; and, as I was a remarker so early in my life, I had an opportunity of making the following observations.Orlando Eustace was a tall, thin, strong man, well made, and a very genteel person. His face was pale, and marked with the small-pox: his features were good, and yet there was something fierce in his look, even when he was not displeased. He had sense and learning, and, with a large fortune, was a generous man; but passionate to an amazing degree, for his understanding; and a trifle would throw him into a rage. He had been humoured in every thing from his cradle, on account of his fine estate; from his infancy to his manhood, had been continually flattered, and in every thing obeyed. This made him opinionated and proud, obstinate,[Page 4]
and incapable of bearing the least contradiction.Bellinda Coot, his Lady, with whom he had been passionately in love, was as fine a figure as could be seen among the daughters of men. Her person was charming; her face was beautiful, and had a sweetness in it that was pleasing to look at. Her vivacity was great, and her understanding extraordinary; but she had a satirical wit, and a vanity, which made her delight in shewing the weakness of other minds, and the clearness of her own conception. She was too good, however, to have the least malice in such procedure. It was human weakness, and a desire to make her neighbours wiser. Unfortunately for her, she was married to a man, who, of all men in the world, was the unfittest subject for her quick fancy to act on.But, notwithstanding this, Eustace and Bellinda were, for the most of their time, very fond. As she was formed in a prodigality of nature, to shew mankind a finished composition, and had wit and charms enough to fire the dullest and most insensible heart; a man of Orlando's taste for the sex, could not be without an inflamed heart, when so near the transporting object of desire. She was his delight for almost a year, the dear support of his life. He seemed to value her[Page 5]
esteem, her respect, her love; and endeavoured to merit them by the virtues which fortify love: and therefore, when by his being short, positive, and unreasonable in his dictates, as was too often his wont; and on her being intemperate in the strong sentiments her imagination produced upon the occasion, which was too frequently the case; when they seemed to forget the Apostle's advice for a while, that ye love one another with a pure heart, fervently; 1 Pet. i. 22. and had strifes and debates, which shewed, for the time they lasted, that they were far from being perfect and entire, wanting nothing; then would her throwing her face into smiles, with some tender expression, prove a reconciling method at once. Till the fatal night, this always had a power to soften pain, to ease and calm the raging man.But poor at best is the condition of human life here below; and, when to weak and imperfect faculties, we add inconsistencies, and do not act up to the eternal law of reason, and of God; when love of fame, curiosity, resentment, or any of our particular propensities; when humour, vanity, or any of our inferior powers, are permitted to act against justice and veracity, and instead of reflecting on the reason of the thing, or the right of the case, that by the influence this has on the mind, we may be constituted[Page 6]
virtuous, and attached to truth; we go down with the current of the passions, and let bent and humour determine us, in opposition to what is decent and fit: if in a state so unfriendly as this is, to the heavenly and divine life, where folly and vice are for ever striving to introduce disorder into our frame, and it is difficult indeed, to preserve, in any degree, an integrity of character, and peace within:-if, in such a situation, instead of labouring to destroy all the seeds of envy, pride, ill-will, and impatience, and endeavouring to establish and maintain a due inward œconomy and harmony, by paying a perpetual regard to truth, that is, to the real circumstances and relation of things in which we stand,-to the practice of reason in its just extent, according to the capacities and natures of every being; we do, on the contrary, disregard the moral faculty, and become a mere system of passions and affections, without any thing at the head of them to govern them; -what then can be expected, but deficiency and deformity, degeneracy and guilty practice? This was the case of Eustace and Bellinda. Passion and own-will were so near and intimate to him, that he seemed to live under a deliberate resolution not to be governed by reason. He would wink at the light he had, struggle to evade conviction, and make his mind a chaos and a hell. Bellinda, at the[Page 7]
same time, was too quick, too vain, and too often forgot to take into her idea of a good character, a continual subordination of the lower powers of our nature to the faculty of reason. This produced the following scene.Maria (sister to Bellinda) returned one evening with a five-guinea fan she had bought that afternoon, and was tedious in praising some Indian figures that were painted in it. Mrs. Eustace, who had a taste for pictures, said, the colours were fine, but the images ridiculous and despicable; and her sister must certainly be a little Indian-mad, or her fondness for every thing from that side of the globe could not be so excessive and extravagant as it always appeared to be.To this Maria replied with some heat, and Eustace very peremptorily insisted upon it, that she was right. With positiveness and passion, he magnified the beauties of the figures in the fan, and with violence reflected so severely on the good judgment Bellinda, upon all occasions, pretended to, (as he expressed it) that at last, her imagination was fired, and, with too much eagerness, she not only ridiculed the opinion of her sister, in respect of such things, but spoke with too much warmth against the despotic tempers of self-sufficient husbands.To reverence and obey (she said) was not required by any obligation, when men were[Page 8]
unreasonable, and paid no regard to a wife's domestic and personal felicity; nor would she give up her understanding to his weak determination, since custom cannot confer an authority which nature has denied: It cannot license a husband to be unjust, nor give right to treat her as a slave. If this was to be the case in matrimony, and women were to suffer under conjugal vexations, as she did, by his senseless arguments every day, they had better bear the reproach and solitude of antiquated virginity, and be treated as the refuse of the world, in the character of old maids.This too lively, though just speech, enraged Eustace to the last degree, and from a fury, he sunk in a few minutes into a total sullen silence, and sat for half an hour, while I stayed, cruelly determining, I suppose, her sad doom. Bellinda soon saw she had gone too far, and did all that could be done to recover him from the fit he was in. She smiled, cried, asked pardon; but 'twas all in vain. Every charm had lost its power, and he seemed no longer man. When this beauty stood weeping by his chair, and said, My love, forgive me, as it was in rallery only I spoke, and let our pleasures and pains be hereafter honestly shared; I remember the tears burst from my eyes, and in that condition I went away. It was frightful to look at Eustace,[Page 9]
as he shook, started, and wildly stared; and the distress his Lady appeared in, was enough to make the most stony heart bleed: it was a dismal scene.This happened at nine at night, and at ten Orlando withdrew to bed, without speaking one word, as I was informed. Soon after he lay down, he pretended to be fast asleep, and his wife rejoicing to find him so, as she believed, in hopes that nature's soft nurse would lull the active instruments of motion, and calm the raging operations of his mind: she resigned herself to slumbers, and thought to abolish for that night every disagreeable sensation of pain: but no sooner did this furious man find that his charming wife was really asleep, than he plunged a dagger into her breast. The monster repeated the strokes, while she had life to speak to him, in the tenderest manner, and conjured him, in regard to his own happiness, to let her live, and not sink himself into perdition here and hereafter, by her death. In vain she prayed; he gave her a thousand wounds, and I saw her the next morning a bloody, mangled corpse, in the great house in Smithfield, which stood at a distance from the street, with a wall before it, and an avenue of high trees up to the door; and not in the country, as the Tatler says.
[Page 10]
Eustace fled, when he thought she was expiring, (though she lived for an hour after, to relate the case to her maid, who heard her groan, and came into her room) and went from Dublin to a little lodge he had in the country, about twenty miles from town. The magistrates, in a short time, had information where he was; and one John Mansel, a constable, a bold and strong man, undertook, for a reward, to apprehend him. To this purpose, he set out immediately, with a case of pistols, and a hanger, and lurked several days and nights in the fields, before he could find an opportunity of coming at him; for Eustace lived by himself in the house, well secured by strong doors and bars, and only went out now and then, to an ale-house, the master of which was his friend. Near it, at last, about break of day, Mansel chanced to find him, and, upon his refusing to be made a prisoner, and cocking a pistol to shoot the officer of justice, both their pistols were discharged at once, and they both dropt down dead men. Eustace was shot in the heart, and the constable in the brain. They were both brought to Dublin on one of the little low-back'd cars there used; and I was one of the boys that followed the car, from the beginning of James-street, the out-side of the city, all thro' the town. Eustace's head hung dangling[Page 11]
near the ground, with his face upwards, and his torn bloody breast bare; and of all the faces of the dead I have seen, none ever looked like his. There was an anxiety, a rage, a horror, and a despair to be seen in it, that no pencil could express.§. 3.240 Thus fell Eustace in the 29th year of his age, and by his hand his virtuous, beautiful, and ingenious wife: and what are we to learn from thence? is it, that on such accounts, we ought to dread wedlock, and never be concerned with a wife; No, surely; but to be from thence convinced, that it is necessary, in order to a happy marriage, to bring the will to the obedience of reason, and acquire an equanimity in the general tenour of life. Of all things in this world, moral dominion, or the empire over ourselves, is not only the most glorious, as reason is the superior nature of man, but the most valuable, in respect of real human happiness. A conformity to reason, or good sense, and to the inclination of our neighbours, with very little money, may produce great and lasting felicity; but without this subservience to our own reason, complaisance to company, and softness and benevolence to all around us, the greatest misery does frequently sprout from the largest stock of fortunes.
[Page 12]
It was by ungoverned passions, that Eustace murdered his wife and died himself, the most miserable and wretched of all human beings. He might have been the happiest of mortals, if he had conformed to the dictates of reason, and softened his passions, as well for his own ease, as in compliance to a creature formed with a mind of a quite different make from his own. There is a sort of sex in souls; and, exclusive of that love and patience which our religion requires, every couple should remember, that there are things which grow out of their very natures, that are pardonable, when considered as such. Let them not, therefore, be spying out faults, nor find a satisfaction in reproaching; but let them examine to what consequences their ideas tend, and resolve to cease from cherishing them, when they lead to contention and mischief. Let them both endeavour to amend what is wrong in each other, and act as becomes their character, in practising the social duties of married persons, which are so frequently and strongly inculcated by revelation and natural reason; and then, instead of matrimony's being a burthen, and hanging a weight upon our very beings, there will be no appearance of evil in it, but harmony and joy will shed unmixed felicities on them: they will live in no low degree of beatitude in the suburbs of heaven.
[Page 13]
This was my case: wedlock to me became the greatest blessing; a scene of the most refined friendship, and a condition to which nothing can be added to complete the sum of human felicity. So I found the holy and sublime relation, and in the wilds of Westmoreland, enjoyed a happiness as great as human nature is capable of, on this planet. Sensible to all the ties of social truth and honour, my partner and I lived in perfect felicity, on the products of our solitary farm. The amiable dispositions of her mind, chearfulness, good nature, discretion, and diligence, gave a perpetual dignity and lustre to the grace and loveliness of her person; and as I did all that love and fidelity could do, by practising every rule of caution, prudence, and justice, to prevent variance, soften cares, and preserve affection undiminished, the harmony of our state was unmixed and divine. Since the primitive institution of the relation, it never existed in a more delightful manner. Devoted to each other's heart, we desired no other happiness in this world, than to pass life away together in the solitude we were in. We lived, hoped, and feared but for each other; and made it our daily study to be what revealed religion prescribes, and the concurrent voice of nature requires, in the sacred tie. Do so likewise, ye mortals, who intend to marry, and ye may, like us, be[Page 14]
happy. As the instincts and passions were wisely and kindly given us, to subserve many purposes of our present state, let them have their proper, subaltern share of action; but let reason ever have the sovereignty, (the divine law of reason and truth) and be, as it were, sail and wind to the vessel of life.§. 4.241 Two years, almost, this fine scene lasted, and during that period, the business and diversions of our lone retreat appeared so various and pleasing, that it was not possible to think a hundred years so spent, in the least degree dull and tedious. Exclusive of books and gardening, and the improvement of the farm, we had, during the fine season, a thousand charming amusements on the mountains, and in the glens and vallies of that sweet silent place. Whole days we would spend in fishing, and dine in some cool grot by the water-side, or under an aged tree, on the margin of some beautiful stream. We generally used the fly and rod; but, if in haste, had recourse to one of the little water-falls, and, by fixing a net under one of them, would take a dozen or two of very large trouts, in a few minutes time.By a little water-fall, I mean one of those that are formed by some small river, which tumbles there in various places, from rock to rock, about four feet each fall, and makes a[Page 15]
most beautiful view from top to bottom of a fall. There are many of these falling waters among the vast mountains of Westmoreland. I have seen them likewise in the Highlands of Scotland.242 At Glencrow, half way between Dumbarton and Inverary, there are some very fine ones, and just by them one Campbell keeps a poor inn. There we were entertained with water and whisky, oat-cakes, milk, butter, and trouts he took by the net, at one of the little falls of a river that descends a prodigious mountain near his lone house, and forms, like what we have at Orton-Lodge, a most beautiful scene. Several happy days I passed at his place, with a dear creature, who is now a faint in heaven.243 At other times we had the diversion of taking as much carp and tench as we pleased, in a large, standing, fenny water, that lies about two miles from the lodge, in a glen, and always found the fish of this water of an enormous size, three feet long, though the general length of fish of this species is eleven inches in our ponds: this vast bigness must be owing to the great age of these fish; I may suppose, at least, an hundred years; for it is certain, that in garden-ponds, which have, for experiment's sake, been left undisturbed for many years, the carp and tench[Page 16]
have been found alive, and grown to a surprizing bigness.244 A gentleman, my near relation, who lived to a very long age, put some fish of these species into a pond, the day that Colonel Ewer, at the head of seven other officers, presented to the Commons that fatal remonstrance, which in fact took off the head of Charles, that is, November 20, 1648; and in the year 1727, seventy-nine years after, on his return to that seat, he found them all alive, and near two feet and a half in length. This demonstrates that fish may live to a very great age. It likewise proves that they continue to grow till they are an hundred years old, and then are the finest eating.Another of our amusements, during the summer's bright day, was the pointer and gun, for the black cock, the moor cock, and the cock of the wood, which are in great plenty on those vast hills. Charlotte was fond of this sport, and would walk with me for hours, to see me knock down the game; till, late in the evening, we would wander over the fells, and then return to our clean, peaceful, little house, to sup as elegantly on our birds (1) 245 , as the great could[Page 17]
do, and with a harmony and unmixed joy they are for ever strangers to. After supper, over some little nectared-bowl, we sweetly chatted, till it was bed-time; or I played on my flute, and Charlotte divinely sung. It was a happy life; all the riches and honours of the world cannot produce such scenes of bliss as we experienced in a cottage, in the[Page 18]
Wilds of Westmoreland. Even the winter, which is ever boisterous and extreme cold in that part of the world, was no severity to us. As we had most excellent provisions of every kind in abundance, and plenty of firing from the ancient woods, which cover many of those high hills; and two men servants, and two maids, to do whatever tended to being and to well-being, to supply our wants, and to complete our happiness. -This softened the hard rough scene, and the roaring waters, and the howling winds, appeared pleasing sounds. In short, every season, and all our hours, were quite charming, and full of delight. Good Tom Fleming, our friend, did likewise enhance our felicity, by coming once or twice a week to see us, and staying sometimes two or three days. In the summer time, we also went now and then to visit him; and, if one was inclined to melancholy, yet it was impossible to be dull while he was by. His humour, and his songs, over a bowl of punch, were enough to charm the most splenetic, and make even rancour throw its face into smiles.§. 5.246 Two years, as I have said, this fine scene lasted; and during that soft, transporting period, I was the happiest man on earth. But in came Death, when we least expected him, snatched my charming partner[Page 19]
from me, and melted all my happiness into air, into thin air. A fever, in a few days, snapt off the thread of her life, and made me the child of affliction, when I had not a thought of the mourner. Language cannot paint the distress this calamity reduced me to; not give an idea of what I suffered, when I saw her eyes swimming in death, and the throws of her departing spirit. Blest as she was, in the exercise of every virtue that adorns a woman, how inconsolable must her husband be! and, to add to my distress, by the same fever fell my friend Tom Fleming, who came the day before my wife sickened to see us. One of my lads likewise died, and the two servant maids. They all lay dead around me, and I sat like one inanimate by the corps of Charlotte, till Fryer Fleming, (the brother of Tom,) brought coffins and buried them all. Thus did felicity vanish from my sight, and I remained like a traveller in Greenland, who had lost the sun.§. 6.247 O eloquent, just, and mighty death! (says Raleigh) It is thou alone puts wisdom into the human heart, and suddenly makes man to know himself. It is death that makes the conqueror ashamed of his fame, and wish he had rather stolen out of the world, than purchased the report of his actions,[Page 20]
by rapine, oppression, and cruelty; by giving in spoil the innocent and labouring soul to the idle and insolent; by emptying the cities of the world of their ancient inhabitants, and filling them again with so many, and so variable sorts of sorrows. It is death tells the proud and insolent, that they are but abjects, and humbles them at the instant; makes them cry, complain, and repent; yea, even to hate their former happiness. It is death takes the account of the rich, and proves him a beggar, a naked beggar, which hath interest in nothing but the gravel which fills his mouth. It is death holds a glass before the eyes of the most beautiful, and makes them see therein their deformity and rottenness; and they acknowledge it.Whom none could advise, thou hast persuaded: what none have dared, thou hast done: and whom all the world hath flattered, thou only hast cast out of the world, and despised. Thou hast drawn together all the far-stretched greatness, all the pride, cruelty, and ambition, of man; all the powerful charms of beauty; and covered it all over with these two narrow words, Hic jacet.Nor is this all, mighty death! It is thou that leadest to the resurrection of the dead; the dissolution of the world; the judgment day; and the eternal state of men. It is[Page 21]
thou that finishes the trial of men, and seals their characters, for happiness or misery for ever.Be thou then, death, our morning and evening meditation: let us learn from thee the vanity of all human things; and that it is the most amazing folly, to melt away time, and mis-apply talents, as the generality of reasonable beings do: that we were not made men, thinking, rational beings, capable of the noblest contemplations, to spend all our thoughts and time in sense and pleasure, in dressing, feeding, and sporting; or, in purchases, building and planting; but to prepare for a dying hour; that, when at the call of God, we go out of the body, not knowing whither we go, we may, like Abraham, travel by faith, and trust to the conduct of the Lord of all countries. Since we must die, and thy power, O death, we see, is uncontrolable: since to the dust we must return, and take our trial at the bar of Almighty God, as intelligent and free agents; (for under moral government, and God is a perfectly wise and righteous governor, the wickedness of the wicked will be upon him, and the righteousness of the righteous will be upon him;)-since we must be numbered with the dead, and our circumstances and condition indicate a future judgment, surely we ought to remove our chief concern from this world[Page 22]
to the other, and transfer our principal regard to the immortal spirit; that in the hour of agony, a virtuous mind, purity of conscience, and good actions, may procure us the favour of God, and the guidance of his good spirit to the mansions of the blessed, where new pleasures are for ever springing up, and the happiness of the heavenly inhabitants is perpetually increasing. This is the one thing needful. Death demonstrates, that this world of darkness and error, changes and chances, is not worth fixing our heart on. To secure our passage into the regions of perfect and eternal day, should be the employment of immortal mortals.§. 7.Thus did I reflect as I sat among the dead, with my eyes fastened on the breathless corps of Charlotte, and I wished, if it was possible, to have leave to depart, and in the hospitable grave, lie down from toil and pain, to take my last repose; for I knew not what to do, nor where to go. I was not qualified for the world; nor had I a friend, or even an acquaintance in it, that I knew where to find. But in vain I prayed; it was otherwise decreed: I must go on, or continue a solitary in the wild I was in. The latter it was not possible for me to do, in the state of mind I was in; overwhelmed with sorrow, and without a companion of[Page 23]
any kind; and therefore, I must of necessity go to some other place. I sold all the living things I had to Fryar Fleming, and locked up my doors. My furniture, linen, clothes, books, liquors, and some salt provisions, instruments of various kinds, and such like things, I left in their several places. There was no one to take them, or probability that any one would come there to disturb them; and perhaps, some time or other, the fates might bring me back again to the lone place. Though it was then a desolate, silent habitation, a striking memento of the vanity and precarious existence of all human good things; yet it was possible, that hearty friendship, festivity, and social life, might once more be seen there. The force and operation of casualties did wonders every day, and time might give me even a relish for the solitude in a few years more. Thus did I settle affairs in that remote place; and, taking leave of my friend, the fryar, with my lad O Finn, rode off.
[Page 24]

SECTION II.

Collect thy powers divine, and then drive offThat evil thing call'd fear, that slavish fiend.Let hope, let joy, thy bosom inmates be,Through life still cherish'd, and in death held fast.A gracious God, loud-speaking to thy heart,Through all his works, this truth inculcates still,Natures's thy nurse, and providence thy friend.Integrity, with fearless heart, ride on:Undaunted tread the various path through life.                                         Day Thoughts.
§. 1.248 The sun was rising, when we mounted our horses, and I again went out to try my fortune in the world; not like the Chevalier of La Mancha, in hopes of conquering a kingdom, or marrying some great Princess; but to see if I could find another good country girl for a wife, and get a little more money; as they were the only two things united, that could secure me from melancholy, and confer real happiness. To this purpose, as the day was extremely fine, and Finn had something cold, and a couple of bottles at the end of his valise, I gave my horse the rein, and let him take what way his fancy chose. For some time, he gently trotted the path he had often gone, and over many a mountain made[Page 25]
his road: but at last, he brought me to a place I was quite a stranger to, and made a full stop at a deep and rapid water, which ran by the bottom of a very high hill I had not been up before. Over this river I made him go, though it was far from being safe, and in an hour's ride from that flood, came to a fine rural scene.§. 2.249 It was pasture-ground, of a large extent, and in many places covered with groves of trees, of various kinds; walnuts, chesnuts, and oaks; the poplar, the plane-tree, the mulberry, and maple. There was likewise the Phœnician cedar, the larix, the large-leafed laurel, and the cytissus of Virgil. In the middle of this place were the ruins of an old seat, over-run with shrubby plants; the Virginia creeper, the box-thorn, the jessamine, the honey-suckle, the periwinkle, the birdweed, the ivy, and the climber; and near the door was a flowing spring of water, which formed a beautiful stream, and babbled to the river we came from. Charming scene! so silent, sweet, and pretty, that I was highly pleased with the discovery.§. 3.250 On the margin of the brook, under a mulberry tree, I dined, on something which Finn produced from his wallet, tongue[Page 26]
and ham, and potted black cock; and having drank a pint of cyder, set out again, to try what land lay right onwards. In an hour, we came to a large and dangerous watery moor, which we crossed over with great difficulty, and then arrived at a range of mountains, through which there was a narrow pass, wet and stony, a long and tedious ride, which ended on the border of a fine country: at four in the afternoon, we arrived on the confines of a plain, about a hundred acres, which was strewed with various flowers of the earth's natural produce, that rendered the glebe delightful to behold, and was surrounded with groves. The place had all the charms that verdure, forest, and vale, can give a country. In the centre of this ground was a handsome square building, and behind it a large and beautiful garden, which had a low, thick, holly-hedge, that encompassed it. As the door of this house was not locked, but opened by a silver spring turner, I went in, and found it was one fine spacious room, filled on every side with books, bound in an extraordinary manner. Globes, telescopes, and other instruments of various kinds, were placed on stands, and there were two fine writing-tables, one at each end of the library, which had paper, ink, and pens. In the middle of the room there was a reading-desk,[Page 27]
which had a short inscription, and on it leaned the skeleton of a man. The legend said,-This skeleton was once Charles Henley, Esq;Amazed I stood, looking on these things, and wondered much at the figure of the bones, tack'd together with wires; once, to be sure, the master of this grand collection of books and manuscripts, and this fine room, so sweetly situated in the centre of distant groves: this skeleton had a striking effect on my mind; and the more so, as it held a scroll of parchment, on which was beautifully written in the court-hand, (to appear more remarkable, I suppose) the following lines:""This, and the skeleton, astonished me not a little; and my wonder at the whole increased, as I could find no human creature living, nor discover any house or cottage for an inhabitant. This I thought exceeded all the strange things I had seen in this wonderful country. But perhaps, (it occured at last,) there might be a mansion in the woods before me, or somewhere in the groves on either side; and therefore, leaving the library,[Page 32]
after I had spent an hour in it, I walked onwards, and came to a wood, which had private walks cut through it, and strewed with sand. They shewed only light enough to distinguish the blaze of day from evening shade, and had seats dispersed, to sit and listen to the chorus of the birds, which added to the pleasures of the soft silent place. For about three hundred yards the walk I was in extended, and then terminated in meadows, which formed an oval of twenty acres, surrounded by groves, like the large plain I came from. Exactly in the middle of these fields, part of which were turned into gardens, there stood a very handsome stone house, and not far from the door of it, a fountain played. On either side of the water was a garden-chair, of a very extraordinary make, curious and beautiful; and each of them stood under an ever-green oak, the broad leaved Ilex, a charming shade.§. 4.251 In one of these chairs sat an ancient gentleman, a venerable man, whose hair was white as silver, and his countenance had dignity and goodness. His dress and manner shewed him to be a person of fortune and distinction, and by a servant in waiting, it appeared, he was Lord of the seigneutie I was arrived at. He was tall and graceful, and had not the least stoop, tho'[Page 33]
he wanted but a year of an hundred. I could not but admire the fine old gentleman.§. 5.252 On the same chair, next to him, sat a young Lady, who was at this time just turned of twenty, and had such diffusive charms as soon new fired my heart, and gave my soul a softness even beyond what it had felt before. She was a little taller than the middle size, and had a face that was perfectly beautiful. Her eyes were extremely fine; full, black, sparkling; and her conversation was as charming as her person; both easy, unconstrained, and sprightly.§. 6.253 When I came near two such personages, I bowed low to the ground, and asked pardon for intruding into their fine retirement. But the stars had led me, a wanderer, to this delightful solitude, without the least idea of there being such a place in our island, and as their malignant rays had forced me to offend, without intending it, I hoped they would pardon my breaking in upon them.To this the old Gentleman replied. You have not offended, Sir, I assure you, but are welcome to the Groves of Basil. It gives me pleasure to see you here; for it is very seldom we are favoured with any one's company.[Page 34]
It is hard to discover or make out a road to this place, as we are surrounded almost by impassable mountains, and a very dangerous morass: Nor can I conceive how you found the way here without a guide, or ventured to travel this country, as there are no towns in this part of the county. There must be something very extraordinary in your case, and as you mentioned your being a wanderer, I should be glad to hear the cause of your journeying in this uninhabited region. But first (Mr. Henley said) as it is now near eight at night, and you must want refreshment, having met with no inn the whole day, we will go in to supper. He then arose, and brought me to an elegant parlour, where a table was soon covered with the best cold things, and we immediately sat down. Every eatable was excellent, and the wine and other liquors in perfection. Miss Henley sat at the head of the table, her grandfather over-against her, and placed me at her right hand between them both. The young lady behaved in a very easy genteel manner; and the old gentleman, with freedom, chearfulness, and good manners. 'Till nine this scene lasted, and then Mr. Henley again requested I would oblige him with an account of my travels in that part of the world. This I said I would do in the best manner I could, and while he leaned back in his easy chair,[Page 35]
and the beautiful Statia fastened her glorious eyes upon me, I went on in the following words.§. 7.254 I am an Englishman, Sir, but have passed the greatest part of my life in Ireland, and from the western extremity of it I came. My father is one of the rich men in that kingdom, and was, for many years, the tenderest and most generous parent that ever son was blessed with. He spared no cost on my education, and gave me leave to draw upon him, while I resided in the university of Dublin five years, for what I pleased. Extravagant as I was in several articles, he never set any bounds to my demands, nor asked me what I did with the large sums I had yearly from him. My happiness was his felicity, and the glory of his life to have me appear to the greatest advantage, and in the most respected character, that money can gain a man.But at last, he married his servant maid, an artful cruel woman, who obtained by her wit and charms so great an ascendant over him, that he abandoned me, to raise a young nephew this stepmother had, to what splendor and power she pleased. He had every thing he could name that money could procure, and was absolute master of the house and land. Not a shilling at this time could[Page 36]
I get, nor obtain the least thing I asked for, and because I refused to become preceptor to this young man, and had made some alteration in my religion, (having renounced that creed, which was composed, nobody knows by whom, and introduced into the church in the darkest ages of popish ignorance; a symbol, which strongly participates of the true nature and spirit of popery, in those severe denunciations of God's wrath, which it pours so plentifully forth against all those whose heads are not turned to believe it), my father was so enraged that he would not even admit me to his table any longer, but bid me be gone. My mother-in-law likewise for ever abused me, and her nephew, the lad, insulted me when I came in his way.Being thus compelled to withdraw, I set sail for England as soon as it was in my power, and arrived in Cumberland by the force of a storm. I proceeded from thence to the mountains of Stanemore, to look for a gentleman, my friend, who lived among those hills; and as I journeyed over them, and missed him, I chanced to meet with a fine northern girl, and a habitation to my purpose. I married her, and for almost two years past was the happiest of the human race, till the sable curtain fell between us, and the angel of death translated her glorious soul to the fields of paradise. Not able to bear the place of our residence, after I had[Page 37]
lost my heart's fond idol, I left the charming spot and mansion, where unmixed felicity had been for some time my portion, and I was travelling on towards London, to see what is ordained there in reserve for me; when by accident I lost my way, and the fates conducted me to the Groves of Basil. Curiosity led me into the library I found in the plain, without this wood, from whence, in search for some human creatures, I proceeded to the fountain, where I had the pleasure of seeing you, Sir, and this young lady. This is a summary of my past life; what is before me heaven only knows. My fortune I trust with the Preserver of men, and the Father of spirits. One thing I am certain of by observation, few as the days of the years of my pilgrimage have been, that the emptiness, and unsatisfying nature of this world's enjoyments, are enough to prevent my having any fondness to stay in this region of darkness and sorrow. I shall never leap over the bars of life, let what will happen: but the sooner I have leave to depart, I shall think it the better for me.§. 8.255 The old gentleman seemed surprized at my story, and after some moments silence, when I had done, he said, Your measure, Sir, is hard, and as it was, in part, for declaring against a false religion at your years, you please me so much, that if[Page 38]
you will give me leave, I will be your friend, and as a subaltern providence, recompence your loss as to fortune in this world. In what manner you shall know to-morrow, when we breakfast at eight. It is now time to finish our bottle, that we may, according to our custom, betimes retire.256 At the time appointed I met the old gentleman in the parlour, and just as we had done saluting each other, Statia entered, bright and charming as Aurora. She was in a rich dress, and her bright victorious eyes flashed a celestial fire. She made our tea, and gave me some of her coffee. She asked me a few civil questions, and said two or three good things on the beauties of the morning, and the charms of the country. She left us the moment we had done breakfast, and then the old gentleman addressed himself to me in the following words.I do not forget the promise I made you, but must first relate the history of my family. I do it with the more pleasure, as I find you are of our religion, and I cannot help having a regard for you, on your daring to throw up a fortune for truth; for bravely daring to renounce those systems, which have an outward orthodox roundness given to them by their eloquent defenders, and within are mere corruption and apostacy.
[Page 39]
The skeleton you saw in the library was once my son, Charles Henley, a most extraordinary man. He had great abilities, and understood every thing a mortal is capable of knowing, of things human and divine. - When he was in his nineteenth year, I took him to France and other countries, to see the world, and, on our return to England, married him into a noble family, to a very valuable young woman, of a large fortune, and by her he had the young lady you saw sitting on the chair near the table by me. This son I lost, three years after his marriage, and with him all relish for the world: and being naturally inclined to retirement and a speculative life, never stirred since from this country-house. Here my son devoted himself entirely to study, and amused himself with instructing his beloved Statia, the young lady you have seen. At his death he consigned her to my care; and as her understanding is very great, and her disposition sweet and charming, I have not only taken great pains in educating her, but have been delighted with my employment. 257 Young as she is, but in the second month of her one and twentieth year, she not only knows more than women of distinction generally do, but would be the admiration of learned men, if her knowledge in languages, mathematics, and philosophy, were known to them: and as her father taught her music[Page 40]
and painting, perhaps there is not a young woman of finer accomplishments in the kingdom.Her father died towards the end of the year 1723, in the 39th year of his age, when she was not quite sixteen, and, by his will, left her ten thousand pounds, and Basil-House and estate; but she is not to inherit it, or marry, 'till she is two and twenty. This was her father's will. As to the skeleton in the library, it was my son's express order it should be so, and that the figure should not be removed from the place it stands in, while the library remained in that room; but continue a solemn memorial in his family, to perpetuate his memory, and be a memento mori to the living.§. 10.258 This is the history of Basil Groves, and the late owner of this seat, and his daughter Statia. We live a happy, religious life here, and enjoy every blessing that can be desired in this lower hemisphere. But as I am not very far from a hundred years, having passed that ninety-two which Sir William Temple says, he never knew any one he was acquainted with arrive at, I must be on the brink of the grave, and expect every day to drop into it. What may become of Statia, then, gives me some trouble to think; as all her relations, except myself, are in the other world. To spend[Page 41]
her life here in this solitude, as seems to be her inclination, is not proper; and to go into the world by herself, when I am dead, without knowing any mortal in it, may involve her in troubles and distresses. Hear then, my son, what I propose to you. You are a young man, but serious. You have got some wisdom in the school of affliction, and you have no aversion to matrimony, as you have just buried, you say, a glorious woman, your wife. If you will stay with us here, till Statia is two and twenty, and in that time render yourself agreeable to her, I promise you, she shall be yours the day she enters the three and twentieth year of her age, and you shall have with her fortune all that I am owner of, which is no small sum. What do you say to this proposal?§. 11.259 Sir, I replied, you do me vast honour, much more I am sure than my merits can pretend to. I am infinitely obliged to you, and must be blind and insensible, if I refused such a woman as Miss Henley, were she far from being the fortune she is: But I have not vanity enough to imagine, I can gain her affections; especially in my circumstances; and to get her by your authority, or power of disposing of her, is what I cannot think of. I will stay however, a few months here, since you so generously invite[Page 42]
me, and let Miss Henley know, I will be her humble servant, if she will allow me the honour of bearing that title. This made the old gentleman laugh, and he took me by the hand, saying, This is right. Come, let us go and take a walk before dinner.§. 12.260 There I passed the winter, and part of the spring, and lived in a delightful manner. The mornings I generally spent in the library, reading, or writing extracts from some curious MSS. or scarce books; and in the afternoons Miss Henley and I walked in the lawns and woods, or sat down to cards. She was a fine creature indeed in body and soul, had a beautiful understanding, and charmed me to a high degree. Her conversation was rational and easy, without the least affectation from the books she had read; and she would enliven it sometimes by singing, in which kind of music she was as great a mistress as I have heard. As to her heart, I found it was to be gained; but an accident happened that put a stop to the amour.§. 13.261 In the beginning of March, the old gentleman, the excellent Mr. Henley, Statia's grandfather and guardian, and my great friend, died, and by his death a great alteration ensued in my affair. I thought[Page 43]
to have had Miss Henley immediately, as there was no one to plead her father's will against the marriage, and intended to send O Finn for Fryar Fleming; but when Statia saw herself her own mistress, without any superior, or controul, and in possession of large fortunes, money, and an estate, that she might do as she pleased; this had an effect on her mind, and made a change. She told me, when I addressed myself to her, after her grandfather was interred, that what she intended to do, in obedience to him, had he lived, she thought required very serious consideration now she was left to herself: That, exclusive of this, her inclination really was for a single life; and had it been otherwise, yet it was not proper, since her guardian was dead, that I should live with her till the time limited by her father's will for her to marry was come; but that, as she had too good an opinion of me, to imagine her fortune was what chiefly urged my application, and must own she had a regard for me, she would be glad to hear from me sometimes, if I could think her worth remembring, after I had left the Groves of Basil. This she said with great seriousness, and seemed by her manner to forbid my urging the thing any further.
[Page 44]

§. 14.262 I assured her, however, that time only could wear out her charming image from my mind, and that I had reason to fear, she would long remain the torment of my heart. She had a right to be sure to dismiss me from her service; but in respect of her inclination to live a single life, I begged leave to observe, that it was certainly quite wrong, and what she could not answer to the wise and bountiful Father of the Universe, as she was a Christian, and by being so, must believe, that baptism was a memorial of the covenant of grace.The Catholics, and the Vision-mongers of the protestant side, (the Rev. Mr. Wm. Law, and others of his row) may magnify the excellence of celibacy as high as they please, and work it into christian perfection, by sounding words and eloquent pens; but most surely, revelation was directly against them, and required the faithful to produce in a regular way.Consider, illustrious Statia, that when the Most High gave the Abrahamic covenant in these words, I will be a God unto thee, and to thy seed after thee, and in thy seed shall all the families, or nations of the earth be blessed; which includes an interest in God, as a God, father and friend for ever, and a share in all the blessings wherewith the Messiah, in the gospel, hath inriched the world; these inestimable[Page 45]
blessings and promises of life and favour, were designed by the divine munificence for rising generations of mankind; and it was most certainly intended, not only that they should be received with the highest gratitude and duty, but that they should be strongly inculcated upon the thoughts of succeeding generations, by an instituted sign or memorial, to the end of the world.Circumcision was the first appointed token or memorial, and at the same time, an instruction in that moral rectitude to which the grace of God obliges: and when the New Testament succeeded the Law, then was the covenant interest of infants, or their right to the covenant of grace, to be confirmed by the token or sign called baptism; that action being appointed to give the expected rising generation an interest in the love of God, the grace of Christ, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit, that is, in all covenant blessings. But what becomes of this great charter of heaven, if christian women, out of an idle notion of perfection, will resolve to lead single lives, and thereby hinder rising generations from sharing in the honours and privileges of the church of Jesus Christ. Millions of the faithful must thereby be deprived of the token instituted by God to convey to them those covenant blessings, which his love and goodness designed for the rising generations of his people. Have a care then[Page 46]
what you do, illustrious Statia, in this particular. It must be a great crime to hinder the regular propagation of a species, which God hath declared to be under his particular inspection and blessing, and by circumcision and baptism, hath made the special object of divine attention and care. Away then with all thoughts of a virgin life, whatever becomes of me. As God hath appointed matrimony and baptism, let it be your pious endeavour to bare sons and daughters, that may be related to God, their Father; to Jesus, their Redeemer, and first born in the family; and to all the excellent, who are to enjoy, through him, the blessings of the glorious world above. Marry, then, illustrious Statia, marry, and let the blessing of Abraham come upon us gentiles. Oppose not the gospel covenant; that covenant which was made with that patriarch; but mind the comfortable promises; I will circumcise thy heart, and the heart of thy seed. I will pour out my spirit upon thy seed, and my blessing upon thine offspring. The seed of the righteous is blessed. They are the seed of the blessed of the Lord, and their offspring with them. Such is the magna charta of our existence and future happiness; and as infants descending from Abraham, in the line of election, to the end of the world, have as good a right and claim as we to the blessings of this covenant,[Page 47]
and immense promise, I will be a God unto thee, and to thy seed after thee, in their generations; it must be a great crime, to deprive children of this intailed, heavenly inheritance, by our resolving to live in a state of virginity. In my opinion, it is a sin greater than murder. What is murder, but forcing one from his post against the will of providence; and if the virgin hinders a being or beings from coming on the post, against the will of providence, must she not be culpable; and must she not be doubly criminal, if the being or beings she hinders from coming on the stage, or into this first state, were to be a part of the perpetual generations, who have a right to the inheritance, the blessing, and were to be heirs according to the promise made to Abraham? Ponder, illustrious Statia, on the important point. Consider what it is to die a maid, when you may, in a regular way, pruduce heirs to that inestimable blessing of life and favour, which the munificence of the Most High was pleased freely to bestow, and which the great Christian mediator, agent, and negociator, republished, confirmed, and sealed with his blood. Marry then in regard to the gospel, and let it be the fine employment of your life, to open gradually the treasures of revelation to the understandings of the little christians you produce.
[Page 48]
This I am sure your holy religion requires from you: and if from the sacred oracles we turn to the book of nature, is it not in this volume written, that there must be a malignity in the hearts of those mortals, who can remain unconcerned at the destruction and extirpation of the rest of mankind; and who want even so much good will as is requisite to propagate a creature, (in a regular and hallowed way) tho' they received their own being from the meer benevolence of their divine Master? What do you say, illustrious Statia? Shall it be a succession, as you are an upright Christian? And may I hope to have the high honour of sharing in the mutual satisfaction that must attend the discharge of so momentous a duty? (2) 263
[Page 49]

§. 15.264 All the smiles sat on the face of Statia, while I was haranguing in this devout manner, and her countenance became[Page 50]
a constellation of wonders. When I had done, this beauty said, I thank you, Sir, for the information you have given me. I am[Page 51]
a Christian. There is no malignity in my heart. You have altered my way of thinking, and I now declare for a succession. - Let Father Flemming be sent for, and without waiting for my being two and twenty, or minding my father's will, as there's no one to oblige me to it, I will give you my hand. Charming news! I dispatched my lad for the Fryar. The priest arrived the next day, and at night we were married. Three days after, we set out for[Page 52]
Orton Lodge, at my wife's request, as she longed to see the place. For two years more I resided there; it being more agreeable to Statia than the improved Groves of Basil. We lived there in as much happiness as it is possible to have in this lower hemisphere, and much in the same manner as I did with Charlotte my first wife. Statia had all the good qualities and perfections which rendered Charlotte so dear and valuable to me; like her she studied to increase the delights of every day, and by art, good humour, and love, rendered the married state such a system of joys as might incline one to wish it could last a thousand years: But it was too sublime and desirable to have a long existence here. Statia was taken ill, of the small-pox, the morning we intended to return to Basil-Groves; she died the 7th day, and I laid her by Charlotte's side. Thus did I become again a mourner. I sat with my eyes shut for three days: But at last, called for my horse, to try what air, exercise, and a variety of objects, could do.
[Page 53]

SECTION III.

'Twas when the faithful herald of the day,   The village-cock crows loud with trumpet shrill,The warbling lark soars high, and morning grey   Lifts her glad forehead o'er the cloud-wrapt hill:Nature's wild music fills the vocal vale;   The bleating flocks that bite the dewy ground;The lowing herds that graze the woodland dale,   And cavern'd echo, swell the chearful sound.
§. 1.265 Very early, as soon as I could see day, the first of April, 1729, I left Orton-Lodge, and went to Basil-Groves, to order matters there. From thence I set out for Harrigate, to amuse myself in that agreeable place; but I did not go the way I came to Mr. Henley's house. To avoid the dangerous morass I had passed, at the hazard of my life, we went over a wilder and more romantic country than I had before seen. We had higher mountains to ascend than I had ever passed before; and some vallies so very deep to ride through, that they seemed as it were descents to hell. The patriarch Bermudez, in journeying over Abyssinia, never travelled in more frightful Glins * 266 . And yet, we often came to plains and vales which had all the charms a paradise could have. Such is the nature of this country.
[Page 54]
Through these scenes, an amazing mixture of the terrible and the beautiful, we proceeded from five in the morning till one in the afternoon, when we arrived at a vast water-fall, which descended from a precipice near two hundred yards high, into a deep lake, that emptied itself into a swallow fifty yards from the catadure or fall, and went I suppose to the abyss. The land from this head-long river, for half a mile in length and breadth, till it ended at vast mountains again, was a fine piece of ground, beautifully flowered with various perennials, the acanthus, the aconus, the adonis or pheasant's eye, the purple bistorta, the blue borago, the yellow bupthalmum, the white cacalia, the blue campanula, and the sweet-smelling cassia, the pretty double daisy, the crimson dianthus, the white dictamnus, the red fruximella, and many other wild flowers. They make the green valley look charming; and as here and there stood two or three ever-green trees, the cypress, the larix, the balm of Gilead, and the Swedish juniper, the whole spot has a fine and delightful effect. On my arrival here, I was at a loss which way to turn.§. 2.267 I could not however be long in suspense how to proceed, as I saw near the water-fall a pretty thatched mansion, and[Page 55]
inhabitants in it. I found they were a religious society of married people, ten friars and their ten wives, who had agreed to retire to this still retreat, and form a holy house on the plan of the famous Ivon, the disciple of Labadie, so celebrated on account of his connection with Mrs. Schurman, and his many fanatical writings. * 268 A book called the Marriage Chretien, written by this Ivon, was their directory, and from it they formed a protestant La Trappe; with this difference from the Catholic religious men, that the friars of the reformed monastery were to have wives in their convent; the better to enable them to obtain Christian perfection in the religious life. These Regulars, men and women, were a most industrious people, never idle; but between their hours of prayer always at work: the men were employed in a garden of ten acres, to provide vegetables and fruit, on which they chiefly lived; or in cutting down old trees, and fitting them for their fire: and the women were knitting, spinning, or twisting what they had spun into thread, which they sold for three shillings a pound: they were all together in a large, handsome room: they sat quite silent, kept their eyes on their work, and seemed more attentive to some inward meditations, than to any thing that appeared, or passed by them. They looked[Page 56]
as if they were contented and happy. They were all extremely handsome, and quite clean: their linen fine and white: their gowns a black stuff. The women dined at one table: the men at another; but all sat in the same room. The whole house was in bed by ten, and up by four in the morning, winter and summer. What they said at their table I could not hear, as they spoke low and little, and were at a distance from me, in a large apartment: but the conversation of the men, at table, was very agreeable, rational and improving. I observed they had a great many children, and kept four women-servants to attend them, and do the work of the house. The whole pleased me very greatly. I thought it a happy institution.§. 3.269 As to the marriage of the friars in this cloystral house, their founder, Ivon, in my opinion, was quite right in this notion. Chaste junction cannot have the least imperfection in it, as it is the appointment of God, and the inclination to a coit is so strongly impressed on the machine by the author of it; and since it is quite pure and perfect; since it was wisely intended as the only best expedient to keep man for ever innocent, it must certainly be much better for a regular or retreating priest, to have a lawful[Page 57]
female companion with him; and so the woman, who chuses a convent, and dislikes the fashions of the world, to have her good and lawful monk every night in her arms; to love and procreate legally, when they have performed all the holy offices of the day; and then, from love and holy generation, return again to prayer, and all the heavenly duties of the cloystered life; than to live, against the institution of nature and providence, a burning, tortured nun, and a burning, tortured friar; locked up in walls they can never pass, and under the government of some old, cross, impotent superior. There is some sense in such a marriage chretien in a convent. Ivon's convent is well enough. A cloyster may do upon his plan, with the dear creature by ones side, after the daily labours of the monk are over. It had been better, if that infallible man, the Pope, had come into this scheme. How comfortable has Ivon made it to the human race, who renounce the dress and pageantry, and all the vanities of time. Their days are spent in piety and usefulness; and at night, after the completorium, they lie down together in the most heavenly charity, and according to the first great hail, endeavour to increase and multiply. This is a divine life. I am for a cloyster on these terms. It pleased me so much[Page 58]
to see these monks march off with their smiling partners, after the last psalm, that I could not help wishing for a charmer there, that I might commence the Married Regular, and add to the stock of children in this holy house. It is really a fine thing to monk it on this plan. It is a divine institution: gentle and generous, useful and pious.On the contrary, how cruel is the Roman church, to make perfection consist in celibacy, and cause so many millions of men and women to live at an eternal distance from each other, without the least regard to the given points of contact! How unfriendly to society! This is abusing christianity, and perverting it to the most pernicious purposes; under a pretence of raising piety, by giving more time and leisure for devotion. For it never can be pious either in design or practice, to cancel any moral obligation, or to make void any command of God: and as to prayer, it may go along with every other duty, and be performed in every state. All states have their intermissions; and if it should be otherwise sometimes, I can then, while discharging any duty, or performing any office, pray as well in my heart, O God be merciful to me a sinner, and bless me with the blessing of thy grace and providence, as if I was prostrate before an altar. What Martha was reproved[Page 59]
for, was on account of her being too solicitous about the things of this life. Where this is not the case, business and the world are far from being a hindrance to piety. God is as really glorified in the discharge of relative duties, as in the discharge of those which more immediately relate to himself. He is in truth more actively glorified by our discharging well the relative duties, and we thereby may become more extensively useful in the church and in the world, may be more public blessings, than it is possible to be in a single pious state. In short, this one thing, celibacy, (were there nothing else) the making the unmarried state a more holy state than marriage, shews the prodigious nonsense and impiety of the Church of Rome, and is reason enough to flee that communion, if we had no other reasons for protesting against it. The tenet is so superstitious and dangerous, that it may well be esteemed a doctrine of those devils, who are the seducers and destroyers of mankind: but it is (says Wallace * 270 ) suitable to the views and designs of a church, which has discovered such an enormous ambition, and made such havock of the human race, in order to raise, establish, and preserve an usurped and tyrannical power.
[Page 60]

§. 4.271 But as to the Married Regulars I have mentioned; they were very glad to see me, and entertained me with great civility and goodness. I lived a week with them, and was not only well fed with vegetables and puddings on their lean days, Wednesdays and Fridays, and with plain meat, and good malt drink, on the other days; but was greatly delighted with their manner and piety, their sense and knowledge. I will give my pious readers a sample of their prayers, as I imagine it may be to edification. These friars officiate in their turns, changing every day; and the morning and evening prayers of one of them were in the words following. I took them off in my shorthand.A Prayer for Morning.
Almighty and everlasting God, the creator and preserver of all things, our law-giver, saviour, and judge, we adore thee the author of our beings, and the father of our spirits. We present ourselves, our acknowledgments, and our homage, at the foot of thy throne, and yield thee the thanks of the most grateful hearts for all the instances of thy favour which we have experienced. We thank thee for ever, O Lord God Almighty, for all thy mercies and blessings[Page 61]
vouchsafed us; for defending us the past night from evil, and for that kind provision which thou hast made for our comfortable subsistence in this world.But above all, most glorious Eternal, adored be thy goodness, for repeating and reinforcing the laws and the religion of thy creation, by supernatural revelation, and for giving us that reason of mind, which unites us to thee, and makes us implore thy communications of righteousness, to create us again unto good works in Christ Jesus.We confess, O Lord, that we have done violence to our principles, and alienated ourselves from the natural use we were fitted for: we have revolted from thee into a state of sin, and by the operation of sense and passion, have been moved to such practices as are exorbitant and irregular: but we are heartily sorry for all our misdoings: to thee in Christ we now make our address, and beseech thee to inform our understandings, and refine our spirits, that we may reform our lives by repentance, redeem our time by righteousness, and live as the glorious gospel of thy Son requires. Let the divine spirit assist and enable us to over-rule, conduct, and employ, the subordinate and inferior powers, in the exercise of virtue, and the service of our creator, and as far as the imperfections of our present state will admit,[Page 62]
help us so to live by the measures and laws of heaven, that we may have the humility and meekness, the mortification and self-denial of the holy Jesus, his love of thee, his desire of doing thy will, and seeking only thy honour. Let us not come covered before thee under a form of godliness, a cloke of creeds, observances and institutions of religion; but with that inward salvation and vital sanctity, which renounces the spirit, wisdom, and honours of this world, dethrones self-love and pride, subdues sensuality and covetousness, and opens a kingdom of heaven within by the spirit of God. O let thy Christ be our Saviour in this world; and before we die, make us fit to live for ever with thee in the regions of purity and perfection.Since it is the peculiar privilege of our nature, through thy mercy and goodness, that we are made for an eternal entertainment in those glorious mansions, where the blessed society of saints and angels shall keep an everlasting sabbath, and adore and glorify thee for ever, let thy inspiring spirit raise our apprehensions and desires above all things that are here below, and alienate our minds from the customs and principles of this mad, degenerate, and apostate world: mind us of the shortness and uncertainty of time, of the boundless duration, and the vast importance[Page 63]
of eternity, and so enable us to imitate the example of the holy Jesus in this world, that we may hereafter ascend, with the greatest ardor of divine love, to those realms of holiness, where our hearts will be filled with raptures of gladness and joy, and we shall remain in the highest glory for ever and ever.We live, O Lord, in reconciliation and friendship, in love and good will, with thy whole creation, with every thing that derives from thee, holds of thee, is owned by thee; and under the power of this affection, we pray for all mankind; that they may be partakers of all the blessings which we enjoy or want, and that we may all be happy in the world to come, and glorify thee together in eternity. To this end bring all the human race to the knowledge of thy glorious gospel, and let its influence transform them into the likeness of Christ.But especially, we pray for all who suffer for truth and righteousness sake, and beseech thee to prosper those that love thee. Defend, O Lord, the just rights and liberties of mankind, and rescue thy religion from the corruptions which have been introduced upon it, by length of time, and by decay of piety. Infatuate the counsels, and frustrate the endeavours of the priests of Rome, and against all the designs of those, who are enemies to[Page 64]
the purity of the gospel, and substitute human inventions in the place of revealed religion; prosper the pious labours of those who teach mankind to worship one, eternal and omnipresent being; in whose understanding, there is the perfection of wisdom; in whose will, there is the perfection of goodness; in whose actions, there is the perfection of power; a God without cause, the great creator, benefactor, and saviour of men: -And that the duty of man is to obey, in thought, word, and deed, the precepts of godliness and righteousness, without regard to pleasure, gain, or honour; to pain, loss, or disgrace; diligently imitating the life of the holy Jesus, and stedfastly confiding in his mediation.In the last place, O Lord God Almighty, we beseech thee to continue us under thy protection, guidance, and blessing this day, as the followers and disciples of thy Christ, through whom we recommend our souls and our bodies into thy hands, and according to the doctrine of his religion, say, Our Father, &c.In this manner, did these pious Ivonites begin their every day; and when the sun was set, and they had finished their supper, they worshipped God again in these words.
[Page 65]
A Prayer for Night.
Most blessed, glorious, and holy Lord God Almighty, who art from everlasting to everlasting, God over all, magnified and adored for ever! we, thy unworthy creatures, humble our souls in thy presence, and confess ourselves miserable sinners. We acknowledge our miscarriages and faults, and condemn ourselves for having done amiss. We deprecate thy just offence and displeasure. We cry thee mercy. We ask thee pardon: and as we are quite sensible of our weakness and inability, and know thou lovest the souls of men, when they turn and repent, we beseech thee to give us true repentance, and endue us with the grace of thy sanctifying spirit, that we may be delivered from the bondage and slavery of iniquity, and have the law of the spirit of life which is in Christ Jesus. Upon thee our God, we call for that help which is never wanting, and beseech thee to give us thy heavenly assistance, that we may recover our reasonable nature, refine our spirits by goodness, and purify ourselves even as the Lord Jesus is pure. O thou Father of Lights, and the God of all comforts, inform our understandings with truth, and give us one ray of that divine wisdom which sitteth on the right hand of thy throne. O let us be always under thy communication[Page 66]
and influence, and enable us, through the recommendation of thy Son, our mediator and redeemer, to lay aside all passion, prejudice, and vice, to receive thy truth in the love of it, and to serve thee with ingenuity of mind, and freedom of spirit: that we may pass through a religious life to a blessed immortality, and come to that eternal rest, where we shall behold thy face in righteousness, and adore and bless thee to eternity, for our salvation through him who hath redeemed us by his blood.We praise and magnify thy goodness, O Lord God Almighty, for our maintenance and preservation, by thy constant providence over us, and we beseech thee to take us into thy special care and protection this night. Defend us from all the powers of darkness, and from evil men and evil things, and raise us in health and safety. Do thou, most great and good God, protect us and bless us this night, and when we awake in the morning, let our hearts be with thee, and thy hand with us. And the same mercies we beg for all mankind; that thy goodness and power may preserve them, and thy direction and influence secure their eternal salvation, through Jesus Christ our Lord, by whom thou hast taught us to call upon thee as our Father, &c.
[Page 67]

§. 5.272 By the way, I cannot help observing, that these disciples of Ivon are much reformed in respect of what his cloystered followers were in his time. It appears from Ivon's books, that he was as great a visionary and tritheist as his master Labadie, or any of our modern mystics now are. But these Regulars I found among the Fells, tho' on Ivon's plan, are as rational Christians as ever adorned the religion of our Master by a purity of faith. You see by their prayers, that their devotions are quite reasonable and calm. There is no rant, nor words without meaning: no feeling instead of seeing the truth; nor expectation of covenant mercy on the belief of a point repugnant not only to the reason and nature of things, but to the plain repeated declarations of God in the Christian religion. Their prayer is a calm address to the great Maker, Governor, and Benefactor of the universe; and honour and obedience to Christ as Mediator, according to the will and appointment of God the Father.§. 6.273 Upon my asking one of these gentlemen, how they came to differ so much from Ivon, their founder, and cease to be the patrons of vision, and an implicit incomprehensible faith? He told me, they had read all the books on both sides of the question, that had been written of late years, and[Page 68]
could not resist the force of the evidence in favour of reason and the divine unity. They saw it go against mechanical impulse, and strong persuasion without grounds, and therefore, they dismissed Ivon's notions of believing without ideas, as they became sensible it was the same thing as seeing without light or objects. Without dealing any longer in a mist of words, or shewing themselves orthodox, by empty, insignificant sounds, they resolved, that the object of their worship, for the time to come, should be, that one supreme self-existent being, of absolute, infinite perfection, who is the first cause of all things, and whose numerical identity and infinite perfections are demonstrable from certain principles of reason, antecedent to any peculiar revelation;-and confessed that the blessing, with which Jesus Christ was sent by God to bless the world, consists in turning men from their iniquities. They now perceived what the creed-makers, and Ivon, their founder, could not see, to wit, that it is against the sacred texts, to ascribe to Each Person of Three the nature and all essential attributes and properties of the One only true God, and yet make the Three the One true God only, when considered conjunctly; for if Each has all possible perfections and attributes, then Each must be the same true God as if and when conjoined; and of consequence,[Page 69]
there must then be Three One true Gods, or One Three true Gods; Three One Supreme Beings, or One Three Supreme Beings, since to each of the three must be ascribed (as the orthodox say) any thing and every thing, that is most peculiar and appropriated to the divine nature, without any difference. In short, by conjobbling matters of faith in this manner, they saw, we had three distinct selfs, or intelligent agents, equal in power and all possible perfections, agreeing in one common essence, one sort of species, (like a supreme magistracy of distinct persons, acting by a joint exercise of the same power) and so the three are one, not by a numerical but specific identity; three Omnipotents and one Almighty, in a collective sense. This, (continued this gentleman) on searching the scriptures, we found was far from being the truth of the case. We discovered, upon a fair examination, and laying aside our old prejudices, that there was nothing like this in the New Testament. It appeared to us to be the confused talk of weak heads. In the Bible we got a just idea of One Eternal Cause, God the Father, almighty, all-wise, unchangeable, infinite; and are there taught how to worship and serve him. The greatest care is there taken to guard against the ill effects of imagination and superstition; and in[Page 70]
the plainest language, we are ordered to pray to this blessed and only potentate, the King of kings, and Lord of lords, who only, (or alone) hath immortality; and this in imitation of Jesus, who in the morning very early went out into a solitary place, and there prayed * 274 . Who dismissing his disciples departed into a mountain to pray † 275 . And he continued all night in prayer to GOD ‡ 276 : We are ordered to glorify and bless this only wise God for ever § 277 . Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ || 278 . To God and our Father be glory for ever * 279 . -And to love him truly by keeping the commandments. 280 Cui Jesus sic respondit: primum omnium praeceptorum est: audi Israelita. Dominus Deus vester dominus unus est. Itaque dominum Deum tuum toto corde, toto animo, tota mente, totisque viribus amato. Hoc primum est præceptum. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength. This is the first Commandment.Et voicy le second. Vous aimerez vostre prochain comme vous même. And the second is like the first. Hunc simile est alterum, alterum ut teipsum amato. His majus aliud præceptum nullum est. Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these.
[Page 71]
To say it;-we became fully satisfied, that the supreme God and Governor of the world, who exists by a prior necessity, and therefore must be one, a perfect moral agent, and possessed of all moral perfections, is the sole object of religious worship: that Jesus Christ was a temporary minister, with a legatarian power, to publish and declare the spiritual laws of this Great God: and that it is incumbent on mankind to yield a perfect obedience to these spiritual laws of this Supreme Being: that is, the duty of all, to make the object proposed by Christ, his God and our God, his Father and our Father, the sole object of faith; and to expect happiness or salvation, on the term of being turned from all our inquities. This seemed a matter worthy of the Son of God's appearing in the world. Every thing else must be enthusiasm and usurpation.§. 7.281 Here the Ivonist had done, and I was greatly pleased with his sense and piety. What a heavenly Christianity should we profess (I said) if the notions of our modern enthusiasts were as consistent with Christ's great design and profession! We should then set up the Kingdom of God, among men, and be diligent and active in promoting the laws of that kingdom. We should then believe, like Jesus Christ and his apostles, that[Page 72]
there is but One God, the Father Almighty. There is no one good (so commonly called) but one, that is God; or only the one God † 282 . Nullus est bonus nisi unus Deus. Castalio. (And Cant. MS. Clem. Alex. adds,- My Father who is in Heaven.) This is life eternal, to acknowledge thee, O Father, to be the only true GOD ‡ 283 . It is one God who will justify § 284 . We know that there is none other Gods but one. For to us there is one GOD the Father || 285 . There is one GOD and Father of all, who is over all, and through all, and in you all * 286 . And we should confess one Mediator,-the man Christ Jesus. † 287 We should be consistent, and not throw off those principles upon which christianity was founded, and alone could be first built. We should invite men into our religion, by representing to them the perfection of that primary law of God, reason or natural religion; by declaring the plainness and clearness of it to all attentive and well-disposed minds; and then shew them how worthy it was of the Supreme Governor to give such creatures as he has made us the gospel: that by the religion of favour, he has, with glory to himself, displayed his paternal regard for us, by doing much more than what is strictly necessary for our eternal good. God, on a principle of love, sends his Christ, to advise us and awaken us to a sense of our danger in passing through this world, in case (which[Page 73]
he saw would be the thing) we should not constantly attend to the light we might strike out ourselves with some trouble. He calls us in an extraordinary manner to forsake vice and idolatry, and practise the whole system of morality. We might expect, that a good God, would once at least, interpose by such an extraordinary method as revelation, to turn and incline his reasonable creatures, to the study and practice of the religion of nature. This was acting like the Father of the Universe, considering the negligence and corruption of the bulk of mankind. The reason he gave us, the law of nature, was giving us all that was absolutely necessary. The gospel was an addition of what is excellently useful. What, my beloved, (might a rational divine say) can be more paternal, and worthy of the almighty Creator, than to reveal plainly the motive of a judgment to come, in order to secure all obedience to the religion of nature? Reason may, to be sure, be sufficient to shew men their duty, and to encourage their performance of it with the assurance of obtaining a reward, if they would duly attend to its dictates, and suffer them to have their due effect upon them: it may guide mankind to virtue, and happiness consequent to it, as God must be a rewarder of all those who diligently seek him, and was enough to bring them to the knowledge, and[Page 74]
engage them in the practice of true religion and righteousness, if they had not shut their eyes to its light, and wilfully rejected the rule written in their hearts. But as this was what mankind really did, and now do; as errors and impieties, owing to an undue use or neglect of reason, became universal; (just as the case of Christians is, by disregarding the New Testament); and reason, through men's faults, was rendered ineffectual, though still sufficient, (which justifies both the wisdom and goodness of God, in leaving man for so many ages to his natural will, and so great a part of the globe to this day with no other light than the law of nature); and reason, I say, was rendered ineffectual, tho' still sufficient to teach men to worship God with pious hearts and sincere affections, and to do his will by the practice of moral duties; to expect his favour for their good deeds, and his condemnation of their evil works; then was revelation a more powerful means of promoting true religion and godliness. The gospel is a more effectual light. It is a clearer and more powerful guide: a brighter motive and stronger obligation to universal obedience than reason can with certainty propose. And therefore, though there was not a necessity for God to give a new rule in vindication of his providence, and in order to render men accountable to him for their actions; yet the[Page 75]
divine goodness was pleased to enforce the principles of reason and morality more powerfully by an express sanction of future rewards and punishments, and by the gospel restore religious worship to the original uncorrupted rational service of the Deity. This displays his paternal regard to his children, with glory to himself. Love was the moving principle of his sending Christ into the world, to reform the corruptions of reason, to restore it to its purity, and most effectually to promote the practice of the rules of it. The gospel-revelation considered in this manner appears to be the pure effect of the divine goodness. It is a conduct accompanied with the greatest propriety and glory.If this representation of Christianity was as much the doctrine of the church as it is of the Ivonites I have mentioned, we might then, with hopes of success, call upon the rational infidels to come in. They could hardly refuse the invitation, when we told them, our religion was the eternal law of reason and of God restored, with a few excellently useful additions: that the gospel makes the very religion of nature, a main part of what it requires, and submits all that it reveals to the test of the law of reason: that the splendor of God's original light, the light of nature, and the revelation of Jesus, are the same; both made to deliver mankind[Page 76]
from evils and madness of superstition, and make their religion worthy of God, and worthy of men; to enable them, by the voice of reason in conjunction with the words of the gospel, to know and worship One God, the Maker, the Governor, the Judge, of the world; and to practise all that is good and praise-worthy: that we may be blessed as we turn from iniquity to virtue; and by entring cordially into the spirit of the meritorious example or exemplary merits of Christ, be determined dead to sin, and alive to righteousness: in short, my brethren, in the suffering and death of Jesus, his patient, pious and meek, his benevolent and compassionate behaviour, under the most shocking insult, indignity, and torture, we have what we could not learn from the religion of nature, a deportment that well deserves both our admiration and imitation. We learn from the perfect example of Jesus, recommended in his gospel, to bear patiently ill-usage, and to desire the welfare of our most unreasonable and malicious enemies. This is improving by religion to the best purpose; and as we resemble the Son of God, the man Christ Jesus, in patience, piety, and benevolence, we become the approved children of the Most High, who is kind and good to the unthankful and to the evil. In this view of the gospel, all is fine, reasonable,[Page 77]
and heavenly. The gentile can have nothing to object. We have the religion of nature in its original perfection, in the doctrine of the New Testament, enforced by pains and pleasures everlasting; and we learn from the death of the Mediator, not only an unprecedented patience, in bearing our sins in his own body on the tree; but the divine compassion and piety with which he bore them. We have in this the noblest example to follow, whenever called to suffer for well-doing, or for righteousness-sake; and by the imitation, we manifest such a command of temper and spirit, as can only be the result of the greatest piety and virtue. This added to keeping the commandments must render men the blessed of the Father, and entitle them to the kingdom prepared for the wise, the honest, and the excellent.But, alas! instead of giving such an account of christianity, the cry of the doctors is, for the most part, Discard reason, and prostrate your understanding before the adorable mysteries. Instead of a Supreme Independent First Cause of all things to believe in and worship, they give Three true Gods in number, Three infinite independent Beings, to be called One, as agreeing in one common abstract essence, or species; as all mankind are one, in one common rational nature, or abstract idea of humanity. Amazing account![Page 78]
A triune no infidel or gentile of sense will ever worship.Instead of fixing salvation or moral rectitude, and our preferring the will of God, as delineated in the words of the gospel, before all other considerations, we are told of an innocent, meritorious, propitiating blood, spilt by wicked hands, and so made an acceptable sacrifice, to a Being who is of purer eyes than to behold iniquity. This, we are assured, satisfies all the demands of the law. Here is infinite satisfaction:-and most certainly, I add, a cool indifference as to personal rectitude. When such a faith or credulity becomes the principal pillar of trust and dependance, then mere reliance on such satisfaction to divine justice, may be a stupifying opiate, and make many remiss in the labours of a penitential piety, and that exact rectitude of mind and life, which even reason requires, to render us acceptable to the Deity. Many an appetite and passion are indulged under this subterfuge; and with little fervency or zeal for good works, men expect to partake of the heavenly joys, by trusting to the merits of their Saviour, in their last will and testament. Deplorable case! Alas! how has Christianity suffered by its doctors! The infidel laughs at it as thus preached. It becomes a by-word, and a hissing to them that pass by.
[Page 79]

§. 8.288 As to the library of my friends, the Ivonites, it was far from being a grand one, but I saw many curious books in it which had not come in my way before. From them I made several extracts, and to gratify my reader's curiosity a little, I will here favour him with one of them.The first book I chanced to open in this library, was the second volume of Severin Bini's edition of the Councils (3) 289 , (edit. Paris, 1630) and over-against a very remarkable passage from Cyril, (p. 548) I found several written leaves, bound up in the volume, and these leaves referred to by an asterisk. The passage I call remarkable, is part[Page 80]
of a homily pronounced by the Alexandrian Patriarch before the council of Ephesus on St. John's day, in a church dedicated to his[Page 81]
name. In rehearsing his discourse to the Holy Fathers, the Saint cites Heb. i. 6. and then addresses himself to the apostle.
[Page 82]
?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????. -----"" -----????????????????????????????????????????????????????????, &c. -O blessed[Page 84]
John the Evangelist, explain this mystery: Who is this first-begotten-how came he into the world? Mysterium hoc aperi, effare[Page 85]
etiam nunc, qui voces habes immortales. Resera nobis puteum vitæ. Da, ut nunc quoque de salutis fontibus hauriamus.
[Page 86]
This passage of Cyril I have heard several learned Roman Catholic gentlemen call a prayer, and affirm it was a proof of the Father's[Page 87]
Invocation of saints, in the beginning of the 5th century; for St. Cyril succeeded his uncle Theophilus in the see of Alexandria,[Page 88]
October 16, 412. But to this it may be answered,-1. That Binius, though a zealous pleader for the catholic cause, (as the monks of Rome miscall it) was of another opinion, for he takes no notice of this passage in his notes (in calce part. 3, Concil. Ephesini, tom. 2. p. 665, &c.) and most certainly, he would not have failed to urge it, if he had considered it as a prayer, and believed it did prove the invocation of saints.
[Page 89]
2. Nor does Bellarmine, in his treatise de sanctorum beatitudine, Henricus Vicus, de sanctorum invocatione, Gabriel Vasquez, de adoratione, or Gregorius de Valentia, de oratione, make use of this passage of Cyril, tho' they do, ex professo, and datâ operâ, diligently quote all the councils and fathers they can, to prove invocation of saints.3. As rhetorical apostrophes, or prosopopæias, are usual in all authors, sacred or civil, this may be one in Cyril, and it seems very plain from the passage, that it was intended for no more. It appears to be a rhetorical figure, and not a prayer; such a figure as the Greek fathers were wont very frequently to use in their orations and poems.Cyril intending, as appears by the sequel, to answer his own question with a passage in St. John's gospel, makes a long rhetorical apostrophe to the apostle, as if he were there present, then adds, Annon dicentem audimus, ????????????????????????? But do we not hear him saying? Or, as Binius has the reading, ????????????????????????, let us hear what St. John saith, audiamus itaque dicentem, as if they had heard John giving his answer, and then concludes with the first verse of the first chapter of his gospel, ??????????????????, &c. In the beginning was the word, &c.It is therefore very plain, that this passage of Cyril is only a part of his homily or sermon,[Page 90]
and that in a rhetorical manner, he quotes a text from a gospel written by John about 330 years before, in answer to his own question, who the word was? For Cyril to pray to John to tell them what he had told them long before, were senseless and ridiculous; but to desire the apostle to do it in a rhetorical apostrophe, was allowable. It amounts to no more than the figurative expression in our liturgy, Hear what comfortable words our Saviour saith. Hear what St. Paul saith.But if Cyril did in this passage truly pray to St. John, that could be no argument for popish invocation of saints; for, if an hundred fathers in the beginning of the fourth century, had preached up, and practised invocation of saints, yet that could not make it lawful and right, since we are taught by the scriptures to direct our prayers neither to saint nor angel, but to God only, and in the name and mediation of Jesus Christ only. We are not only positively ordered by the apostles to make all our addresses and prayers to God only, and by the mediation and intercession of Jesus Christ; but are told, that God is omniscient, and so able to hear all our prayers;-all-sufficient, and therefore able to supply all our necessities; -and that his mercies in Jesus Christ are infinite. This makes our way sure in this particular.
[Page 91]
On the contrary, the papists have no precept to pray to saints; nor any promise that they shall be heard; nor any practice of the primitive church, for 300 years after Christ, to encourage them; and therefore, such popish invocation is a novel, groundless, and impious error.290 We are told by St. Peter, (Acts v. 31.) that God had exalted the Lord Jesus Christ to be a Prince and Saviour, that is, an intercessor. -By St. Paul, (Heb. vii. 25.) that Christ is able to save to the uttermost all that come to God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them; (chap. ix. 24.) that he is gone to heaven (for this very end) to appear in the presence of God for us: (1 Tim. ii. 5.) that there is no other mediator betwixt God and men but the man Christ Jesus, that is, whose prerogative it is to intercede for sinners to the Divine Majesty; being an honour and dignity God hath exalted him unto, after his sufferings, and as a reward thereof: -Thus are we informed by the divine oracles, and yet, notwithstanding this, to make prayers and supplications to the Virgin Mary, and a thousand other saints, for aid or help; and to have by their merit and intercession, the gifts and graces they pray for conferred upon them;-this is a doctrine of such dangerous consequence, as it is a depriving of Christ Jesus of that grand dignity and prerogative[Page 92]
he is now in heaven exalted to, as much as in men lies, that I should have admired how it ever came to be embraced by such as profess christianity, had not the spirit of God foretold (1 Tim. iv. 4.) that some should depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits, (that is, seducing men) and doctrines of devils, that is to say, doctrines concerning demons, or souls of famous men departed this life; which the heathens called demons; and to whom they gave the worship of prayer or invocation, as intercessors or inferior divinities. This prophecy hinders my wondering at the thing: but then I must call such modern invocation gentilism christianized; a deplorable corruption.Ponder then, ye Catholics, in time, and think not to excuse yourselves by arguing from the command Christians have here on earth to require each others prayers to God for them: -For, we have no command to supplicate any in heaven but only God. (Matt. vi. 8.) We have no reasonable assurance that the saints in heaven do hear our prayers, and of consequence have not the same reasons to request their prayers to God for us that we have to request the prayers of saints on earth: nor is this all: our prayers to each other in this life are only christian requests to recommend our conditions to God: offices only of kindness: no acts of religious worship.
[Page 93]
When St. Paul was on earth, had any one on bended knees, with hands and eyes lifted up to heaven, in time of public prayer, and amidst the solemn prayers to God, beseeched him for aid and help, and for the conference of gifts and graces, he would have rent his cloathes, and said, Why do ye these things? and can we suppose, that now in heaven, the apostle is less careful to preserve entire God's prerogative.Beside, there is a great deal of difference betwixt St. Paul's saying, Brethren, pray for us, or our requesting the prayers of the faithful here on earth for us, and praying to saints in heaven, as practised in the Roman church. Our's, are only wishes and requests; their's, solemn prayers on bended knees, made in the places and proper seasons of divine worship, and joined with the prayers they make to God. They use the same postures and expressions of devotions they use to God himself. They pray to them for help and aid, and make them joint-petitioners with Christ; relying on their merits as the merits of Christ.In sum, in the tabernacle of this world, we are to request the prayers of every good christian for us: but in the tabernacle of heaven, we are to call on none but Him in whom we believe. As in the outward court of the Jewish tabernacle, every priest was permitted to officiate, to receive and present the devotions[Page 94]
of the people to the divine majesty; but in the holy place, within the vail, none but the high-priest was to do any office or service: even so in the tabernacle of this world, every christian being a priest to God, has this honour conferred upon him; but in the holy of holies, in heaven, none but Christ, our high-priest, is to officiate. He only is there to appear in the presence of God for us. It is his prerogative alone to receive our prayers, and present them to the divine majesty. As none but the high-priest was to offer incense in the holy of holies, so none in heaven but Christ our high-priest is to offer our prayers to God his father. He alone is that angel to whom much incense was given, that he should offer it with the prayers of all saints, upon the golden altar that was before the throne. (Rev. viii. 3.) Which alludes to the altar that was before the mercy-seat, on which the high-priest only was to offer incense.But the catholic may say perhaps, that as on earth, men do not presently run to kings to present their requests, but obtain his favours by the mediation of courtiers and favourites; even so, it is fitting we have recourse to saints, who are favourites in heaven, that we may obtain access to God, and have our suits accepted of him. Thus have I heard some learned men of the church of Rome argue. They should consider, however, in the first[Page 95]
place, that if an earthly prince had declared he would have no sollicitor but his son, and that all favours and royal graces should come to his subjects through his hands, and by means of his mediation; such subjects could deserve no favour, if they make their application to other favourites, contrary to their prince's command. -In the next place, if the sollicitor, the son, was out of the question, and no such one had been declared by the king, yet as we petition earthly princes by such as enjoy their presence, because they cannot give audience to all their subjects, nor do they know the worthy; but God is omnipresent, his ears always open, and his head bowed down to the prayers of his people; is no respecter of persons, but gives a like access to the beggar as to the prince, and promises to cast out none that make their application to him; it follows of consequence, that we ought to address ourselves immediately to God, and ask from him. If an earthly prince should thus invite his subjects to petition him for the supply of their wants, I should account the man no better than a fool or a madman, who would apply himself to any of the king's favourites.The conclusion is; O thou that hearest prayer, unto thee shall all flesh come. (Ps. lxv. 2.) Since God, who is infinite in mercy, omnipresent, and omnipotent in wisdom and action, admits every man to the throne of[Page 96]
grace, bids him ask in the name of Jesus Christ, and promises, whatever we ask in his Son's name, he will do it. -Since the practice of praying to saints is injurious to Christ, and doth manifestly rob him of his royal prerogative, which is to be the one, and only mediator betwixt God and man; for in this office, he hath no sharers or partners, according to the scripture account: As God is but one, and there is no other; so the mediator (by the appointment of God) is but one, and there is, there can be no other (4) 291 --- And since, exclusive of these unalterable things, the Roman doctors cannot be certain, that saints in heaven hear the requests of suppliants on earth, or know whether our prayers are fit to be accepted of God (5) 292 ; let us reject that unlawful practice, the invocation of saints,[Page 97]
and pray for pardon and grace (as the gospel directs) to God the judge of all, through Jesus Christ the mediator of the new covenant. This do, and thou shalt live.N. B. Who was the author of these good remarks, these friars could not tell me; as they were in the book when they bought it. If I mistake not, they are an abstract from a letter of Bishop Barlow to Mr. Evelyn, with several additions. I have not Bishop Barlow's works by me; but I think I have seen something to this purpose, written by this prelate about one hundred years ago.
[Page 98]

SECTION III.

""Amid the vast creation; why ordain'd""With thoughts beyond the limits of his frame;""In sight of mortal and immortal powers,""The great career of justice; to exalt""To shake each partial purpose from his breast;""And thro' the tossing tide of chance and pain,""Of truth and virtue, up the steep ascent""Th' applauding smile of heav'n? Else wherefore burns""That breathes from day to day sublimer things,""With such resistless ardor to embrace""Spurning the gross controul of wilful might;""Proud to be daring?""SIR,As you can have nothing in view but our happiness, in your most generous offer of assistance, we have not words to express our grateful sense of the intended[Page 199]
favour. What is to be done upon the occasion, as yet we cannot imagine, as we are so confined and watched, and the doors of the house locked and barred in such a manner every night, that a cat could not get out at any part of it. You shall hear from us however soon, if possible, to some purpose; and in the mean time we are,""Sir,You ever obliged servants,M. T.A. L."What to do then I could not tell; but as I rid back I consulted with my lad O Fin, who was a very extraordinary young man, and asked him what observations he had made on the servants and place. He said, he had tried the depth of the water in the mote all round, and found it fordable at one angle, waist high, and about two feet broad the rock he trod on. He had stripped, and walked it over to be sure of the thing. As to the people, he fancied there was one young man, a labourer by the year under the gardener, who would, for a reasonable reward for losing his place, be aiding in the escape of the ladies; for he talked with pity of them, and with great severity of his master: that[Page 200]
if I pleased, he would sound this man, and let me know more in relation to him: that if he would be concerned, he could very easily carry the ladies on his back across the water, as he was a tall man, and then we might take them behind us to what place we pleased: or, if it was not safe trusting this man, for fear of his telling his master, in hopes of more money on that side, then, he would himself engage to bring the ladies and their cloaths over, on his own back, with wetting only their legs, if they could be at the water-side some hour in the night. This was not bad to be sure; but I was afraid to trust the man; for, if he should inform old Cock of the thing, they would be confined to their chambers, and made close prisoners for the time to come. It was better therefore to rely entirely upon O Fin, if they could get into the garden in the night.In answer then to another letter I had from the ladies by my landlord's daughter the next morning, in which they lamented the appearing impossibility of an escape, I let them know immediately the state of the water, and desired to be informed what they thought of the gardener's man; or, if he would not do, could they at any particular hour, get to that angle of the mote I named, to be brought over on my man's back, and then immediately ride off behind us on pillions, which[Page 201]
should be prepared. -Their answer was, that they dared not trust any of Mr. Cock's men, but thought my own servant would do, and the scheme reasonable and seemingly safe, if they could get out. They gave me a millon of thanks for my amazing care of them, and called the immortal powers to witness the high sense they had of their unutterable obligation to me.Waiting then for them, I staid at the little inn three days longer, and at last received a billet to let me know, that at twelve o'clock that night, which was the sixth of June, they could, by an accident that had happened, be at the appointed place, and ready to go wherever I pleased. To a minute my man and I were there, and in a few moments, O Fin brought them and their cloaths over safe. In an instant after they were behind us, and we rid away as fast as we could. Six hours we travelled without stopping, and in that time, had gone about thirty miles. We breakfasted very gaily at our inn, and when the horses had rested a couple of hours, we set out again, and rid till three in the afternoon, when we baited at a lone house in a valley, called Straveret Vale, which had every rural charm that can be found in the finest part of Juan Fernandes. A young couple, vastly civil, kept here a small clean public house, the sign of the pilgrim, on the very[Page 202]
margin of a pretty river, and the plain things they had were as good as we could desire. Their bread, their drink, their fowl, their eggs, their butter, cheese, vegetables, and bacon, were excellent, and as they had good beds, I thought we could not do better than lie by for two or three days in this sweet place, 'till it was determined, where the ladies should fix. We were at least sixty miles from old Cock's house, and in an obscurity that would conceal us from any pursuers; for we had kept the cross roads and by-ways, and were on the confines of Westmoreland. Here then we agreed to rest for a little time. In reality, it was just as I pleased. The ladies were all acknowledgment for what I did to deliver them, and all submission to my direction. They had each of them thirty guineas in their purses, as they shewed me, but what to do after that was gone, or where to go while it lasted, to be in safety, they could not tell.The affair perplexed me very much, and I turned it a thousand ways, without being able to settle it as I would. I had two young heiresses on my hands, who wanted more than a year of being at age, and I must support them, and place them in some spot of decency, security, and peace, since I had gone thus far, or I had injured them greatly, instead of serving them, in bringing them[Page 203]
from their guardian's house. This took up all my thoughts for three days. I concealed however my uneasiness from them, and endeavoured to make the house and place quite pleasing to them. I kept up a chearfulness and gaiety, and we sat down with joy and pleasure to breakfast, dinner, and supper. Within doors, we played at cards, we sung, and I entertained them with my German-flute. Abroad, we walked, fished, and sometimes I rowed them up the river in a boat the man of the house had. The whole scheme was really delightful, and as the girls had great quickness and vivacity, and were far from being ignorant, considering their few years, I could have wished it was possible to stay there much longer: but it was no place for them, and I was obliged to call at Claytor, in a little time. I could not forget my promise to the lovely Miss Spence. My honour was engaged, and there was no time to lose. It is true, if I had not been engaged, I might immediately have married either the beautiful Miss Tilston, or the more beautiful Miss Llandsoy, then become my wards; but as they were minors, if such a wife died under age, I could be no gainer, and might have children to maintain without any fortune. All these things sat powerfully on my spirits, and I was obliged at[Page 204]
last to make the following declaration to the ladies, which I did the third day after dinner.Miss Tilston, Miss Llandsoy, I am sensible you have too high an opinion of what I have done to serve you, and think there is more merit in it than there really is; for a man of any generosity and ability would, I imagine, do all that was possible to deliver two young ladies of your charms and perfections, from the slavery and misery your guardian kept you in: I am likewise sure you believe I would do every thing in my power, to secure your happiness, and give you the possession of every blessing of time. I honour, I admire, I regard you both, to a high degree; and if I were some powerful genie, I would crown your lives with stable felicity and glory. But nature, ladies, has irrevocably fixed limits, beyond which we cannot pass, and my sphere of action is far from being large. My fortune is not very great, and thereby prevents my being so useful a friend to you as I would willingly be. However, though it is not in my power to do according to my inclination, in regard to your case, and with security place you in some station fit for your rank and worth, yet I can bring you to a spot of tranquillity, and in still life enable you to live without perplexity or care of any kind. You shall have peace and little, and may perhaps hereafter say, you have enjoyed more real[Page 205]
happiness, for the time you had occasion to reside there, than you could find in the tumult, pomp, and grandeur of the world.Here I gave the ladies an account of Orton-Lodge, in the northern extremity of Westmoreland, where I had lived a considerable time told them the condition it was in, the goods, the books, the liquors, and other necessaries and conveniencies that were there, and if, in that charming romantic spot, where no mortal could come to hurt them, they could bear to live for a while, I would settle them there, and get a man servant to work in the garden, and a couple of maids. I would likewise procure for them two cows, a few lambs, some poultry, and corn, and seeds for the ground: in short, that they should have every thing requisite in such a place; I would return to them as soon as possible; I would write to them often, directing my letters to the nearest town, to be called for by their man. What do you say, ladies, to this proposal? In London it is not possible for you to be: at a farm-house you might have no satisfaction: and any where that was known and frequented, you may be liable to discovery, as Cock, your guardian, will enquire every where; and if he hears of you, you will be carried home most certainly to his dismal habitation, and be used ten times[Page 206]
worse than before. What do you think then of this scheme?Sir, (they both replied) you are to us a subaltern power, by heaven sent to deliver us from misery, and secure our happiness in this world. We have not words to express the gratitude of our souls for this further instance of your goodness in the offer you make us, nor can it ever be in our power to make you the return it deserves. You will be pleased to accept our grateful thanks, and all we have to add at present, our prayers for your preservation and health. Conduct us, we beseech you, immediately to that sweet spot of peace you have described.This being agreed on, the next thing to be done was to get two horses for the ladies, for mine were not able to carry double any further, if there had been a turnpike road before us; then up the mountains we were to go, where no double horse could travel; and when they were at the Lodge, they would want horses to ride sometimes, or to remove, if the necessity of their case should happen to require it: to my landlord therefore I applied upon the occasion, and he very quickly got for me not only two pretty beasts, but a young labouring man, and two country girls to wait upon the ladies. I then sent to the next town for a couple of side-saddles, gave the servants directions to go to the Rev.[Page 207]
Mr. Fleming's house, to wait there till they heard from me, and then we set out for Orton-Lodge. Two days we spent in travelling there, feeding on cold provisions we had with us, and lying a night on the fern of the mountains. The second evening we arrived at the Lodge. There I found every thing safe, and the place as I had left it. I opened my various store-houses, to the surprize of the young ladies, and brought them many good things; biscuits, potted char, potted black-cocks, sweetmeats, and liquors of various kinds: O Fin likewise got us a dish of trouts for supper, and the two beauties and I sat down with chearfulness to our table. - Vastly amazed they were at all they saw. Every thing was so good, and the wild charms of the place so pleasing, that they could not but express the transports they were in at their present situation. The whole they said, was charming as inchantment, and in language there was not a force sufficient to express their grateful sentiments upon the occasion. This gave me much pleasure, and till the end of June, I lived a very happy life with these fine young creatures. They did all that was possible to shew their esteem and gratitude. Exclusive of their amazing fine faces, and persons, they were ingenious, gay, and engaging, and made[Page 208]
every minute of time delightful. If I had not been engaged to Miss Spence, I should certainly have sat down in peace with these two young ladies, and with them connected, have looked upon Orton-Lodge as the Garden of Eden. They were both most charming women. Miss Llandsoy was a mere divinity!
[Page 209]

SECTION VII.

Come all, O come, ye family of joy;Ye children of the chearful hour, begotBy wisdom on the virtuous mind; O come!Come innocence, in conscious strength secure;Come courage, foremost in the manly train;Come all, and in the honest heart abide,Your native residence, your fortress still,From real or from fancied evils free:Let's drive far off, for ever drive that bane,That hideous pest, engender'd deep in hell,Horrid to sight, and by the frighted furiesIn their dread panic Superstition nam'd.



   Let rescu'd fancy turn aloft her eye,And view yon wide extended arch; beholdYon crystal concave, studded with the gems,The radiant gems of heaven, that nightly burn,In golden lamps, and gild th' ætherial space;That smiling vault, that canopy of stars.Or eastward turn, and see, serenely bright,The full-orb'd moon begins her silent round:The mountain tops, the rocks, the vales, the lawns,By her set off, adorn'd, and made delightful.On earth, benign, she sheds her borrowed ray,And onward leads along her sparkling train.



   Behold yon blazing sun, in glory rise:Oceans of light he pours upon the world,And night with all her train before him fly.All nature smiles, rejoicing in his beams.The feather'd kinds their morning anthem sing:The fish skim sportive o'er the gilded lakes:Their tow'ring tops the waving forests shew;And op'ning flowers their various dyes display,Perfume the air, and grateful incense yield.It is a glorious and charming scene.


[Page 210]


   What should we fear then? this grand prospect bringsNo dreadful phantom to the frighted eye,No terror to the soul; 'tis transport all!Here fancy roves in sweet variety.All these, in their eternal round, rejoice;All these, with universal praise, proclaimTheir great Creator; bountiful, benign,Immensely good, rejoicing in his creatures.They wake new raptures in the heart of man;And fill his soul with gratitude immense.
§. 1.350 The first of July, just as the day was breaking, I mounted my horse, and went again from Orton-Lodge. The morning being extremely fine, and every thing appearing as in the above lines, I rid softly on for three or four hours, and was so delighted with the beauties, and an infinite variety of lovely objects my eyes were feasted with, that I did not mind the way; and instead of coming to the turning that was my road, I got into a bending valley, which ended at a range of rocky mountains. For half an hour I travelled by the bottom of these frightful hills, and came at length to a pass through them, but so narrow, that the beasts had not above an inch or two to spare on each side. It was dark as the blackest night in this opening, and a stream came from it, by the waters falling in several places from the top of the high inclosing precipices. It was as shocking a foot-way as I had ever seen.
[Page 211]
Finn, (I said to my young man) as the bottom is hard, and you can only be wet a little, will you try where this pass ends, and let me know what kind of country and inhabitants are beyond it? That I will, said O Finn, and immediately entred the cleft or crevice between the mountains. A couple of hours I allowed my adventurer to explore this dark way; but if in that time he could make nothing of it, then his orders were to return: but there was no sign of him at the end of six hours, and I began to fear he had got into some pound. After him then I went, about one o'clock, and for near half a mile, the narrow way was directly forward, a rough bottom, and ancle deep in water; but it ended in a fine flowery green of about twenty acres, surrounded with steep rocky hills it was impossible to ascend. Walking up to the precipice before me, I found many caverns in it, which extended on either hand, and onwards, into a vast variety of caves; some of them having high arched openings for entrance, and others only holes to creep in at; but all of them spacious within, and high enough for the tallest man to walk in.In these dismal chambers I apprehended my fellow had lost himself, and therefore went into them as far as I could venture, that is, without losing sight of the day, and cried out Finn! Finn! but could hear no[Page 212]
sound in return. This was a great trouble to me, and I knew not what to do. Back however I must go to my horses, and after I had spent two hours in searching, shouting, and expecting my lad's return, by some means or other, I was just going to walk towards the crevice, or dark narrow pass I had come through to this place, when casting my eyes once more towards the caverns in the mountains, I saw my boy come out, leaping and singing for joy. He told me, he never expected to see the day-light more: for after he had foolishly gone too far into the caves, till he was quite in the dark, in hopes of finding a passage through the mountain to some open country, he was obliged to wander from chamber to chamber he knew not where for many hours, without one ray of light, and with very little expectation of deliverance; that he did nothing but cry and roar, and was hardly able to stand on his legs any longer, when by a chance turn into a cave, he saw some light again, and then soon found his way out. Poor fellow! he was in a sad condition, and very wonderful was his escape.After this, we made what haste we could to our horses, which we had left feeding in the vale, and Finn brought me some cold provisions from his wallet for my dinner. I dined with great pleasure, on account of the[Page 213]
recovery of my lad, and when we had both recruited and rested sufficiently, on we went again. We found the valley winded about the mountains for three miles, and then ended at the highest hill I had ever seen, but which it was possible to ascend. With great difficulty we and our horses got to the top of it, and down on the other side. Six mountains of the same height, whose tops were above the clouds, we had to cross, and then arrived at a bottom, which formed a most delightful scene.§. 2.351 The Vale of Keswick, and Lake of Derwentwater, in Cumberland, are thought by those who have been there, to be the finest point of view in England, and extremely beautiful they are, far more so than the Rev. Dr. Dalton has been able to make them appear in his Descriptive Poem; (addressed to two ladies, at their return from viewing the coal-mines, near Whitehaven, that is, the late excellent Lord Lonsdale's charming daughters;) or than the Doctor's brother, Mr. Dalton, has painted them in his fine drawings; and yet they are inferior in charms to the vale, the lake, the brooks, the shaded sides of the surrounding mountains, and the tuneful falls of water, to which we came in Westmoreland. In all the world, I believe, there is not a[Page 214]
more glorious rural scene to be seen, in the fine time of the year.In this fine vale, I found one pretty little house, which had gardens very beautifully laid out, and usefully filled with the finest dwarf fruit trees and ever-greens, vegetables, herbs, and shrubs. The mansion, and the improved spot of ground, were at the end of the beautiful lake, so as to have the whole charming piece of water before the door. The projecting shaded fells seemed to nod or hang over the habitation, and on either hand, a few yards from the front of the house, cascades much higher than that of dread Lodore, in Cumberland, fell into the lake. There is not any thing so beautiful and striking as the whole in any part of the globe that I have seen: and I have been in higher latitudes, north and south, than most men living. I have conversed with nations who live many degrees beyond the poor frozen Laplander. I have travelled among the barbarians who scorch beneath the burning zone.§. 3.352 Who lived in this delightful valley, was, in the next place, my enquiry, after I had admired for an hour the amazing beauties of the place. I walked up to the house, and in one of the parlour windows, that had a view up the loch, I saw a young beauty sitting with a music-book[Page 215]
in her hand, and heard her sing in a masterly manner. She could not see me, but I had a full view of her fine face, and as I remembred to have seen her somewhere, I stood gazing at her with wonder and delight, and was striving to recollect where I had been in her company, when another young one came into the room, whom I had reason to remember very well, on account of an accident, and then I knew they were the two young ladies I had seen at Mr. Harcourt's, (see p. 374. of Memoirs of several Ladies of Great Britain,) and admired very greatly for the charms of their persons, and the beauties of their minds. Upon this I walked up to the window, and after a little astonishment at seeing me, they behaved with the greatest civility, and seemed to be highly pleased with the accidental meeting. While we were talking, their mamma came into the apartment, and on their letting her know who I was, and where they had been acquainted with me, the old lady was pleased to ask me to stay at her house that night, and to assure me she was glad to see me, as she had often heard her daughters speak of me. Three days I passed with great pleasure in this sweet place, and then with regret took my leave. These two fine young creatures were the Miss Thurloe's, and are Mrs. Lowman and Mrs. Munkley, in the Memoirs of several Ladies[Page 216]
of Great Britain. In the 2d volume of that work, the reader will find their lives.§. 4.353 The 5th of July I left Mrs. Thurloe's, and by the assistance of a guide, had a fine ride to the house of Friar Fleming, in Richmondshire, where I arrived by noon. I dined with this good Franciscan, and should have lain there that night, but that I could not help being melancholy, on missing my dear friend Tom, the Monk's brother, who died of a fever, as before related. From him then I parted in the evening, and rid to a Carthusian monastry, which consisted of seven monks, men of some estate, who had agreed to live together in this remote place, and pass their lives in piety, study, and gardening. I had a letter from Fleming to one of these gentlemen, the superior, letting him know I was his near friend, and desiring he would receive me as himself; that, although a protestant, I was of no party, but in charity with all mankind. This letter procured me all the kindness and honours these gentlemen could shew me. They behaved with great civility and tenderness, and gave me the best they had, good fish, good bread, good wine, excellent fruit, and fine vegetables; for as to flesh, they never eat any, by their rule.They were all learned and devout men, very grave and silent for the most part, except[Page 217]
when visited, but without any thing stiff or morose in their manner. They had a large collection of books, and seemed to understand them well. What time they had to spare from the hours of divine service, and working in their gardens, according to the rule of St. Benet, which they follow, they give to study, and had many volumes of their own writing; being mostly old MSS. they had transcribed, Greek, Latin, and French. Making such copies was their principal work in the closet.§. 5.354 I stayed two days with these gentlemen, and had a good deal of useful conversation with them, on various subjects. On looking into the writings of the Rabbies, which I saw in their library, I told one of these Chartreux, that it was a wonder to me, that any one read such extravagant fabulous relations and despicable fictions as these books contained, and should be glad to know, what good could be extracted from them.The Friar replied, that notwithstanding their being fictitious and extravagant to a high degree, yet great use may be made of the works of the Rabbies, and especially of the Talmud of Babylon (11.) 355 We obtain from[Page 218]
thence a knowledge of the customs and opinions of the Jews, which afford some benefit. In the next place, they serve to the confirmation[Page 219]
of the history of Jesus Christ; for it appears by the Babylonish Talmud, that there was one Jesus, who had disciples, lived in such and such a place, and did and said divers things; and in the Bible many texts relating to the Messias are confirmed and explained by these books of the Rabbies, though not by them intended. This I have since found to be the truth of the case. I have read the works of the Rabbins since, and find it to be as the Carthusian said. For example;It is said in Gen. iii. 15. I will put enmity between thy seed and her seed. It shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. Now the Targum of Onkelos gives the sense thus: The man shall be mindful of, or remember, what thou (satan) hast done to him in times past, and thou shalt observe, watch or haunt him till the end of days; that is, the serpent or devil should pursue and have dominion over the world till the last days, and then the prince of this world should be cast out,[Page 220]
and the works of the devil destroyed. Beacharith Heyamim, the end of days, or last days, is, by a general rule, given by the most learned Rabbins, meant of the Messias. So Kimchi on Isa. ii. 2.-and Abarbriel and R. Moses Nachm on Gen. xlix. 1. inform us.It is likewise very remarkable, that the Targum of Jerusalem, and that of Jonathan Ben Uziel, apply this place to the coming of the Messias. They give the words the following sense. -I will put enmity between thy seed and her seed: when the sons of the woman keeping my law, they shall bruise thy head, and when they break my law, thou shalt bruise their heel; but the wound given to the seed of the woman, shall be healed, but thine shall be incurable; they shall be healed in the last days, in the days of the Messias. -Such is the opinion of the most learned Jews:-and from thence it follows, that the Christians have not put their sense upon the text I have cited to serve their own turn; the Rabbins, we see, give the very same meaning to the place.Again in Numb. xxiv. 17. we have the famous prophecy of Balaam: There shall come a star out of Jacob, and a sceptre shall rise out of Israel. -In Isaiah xi. 1. it is written; And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of his roots, and the spirit of the Lord shall rest[Page 221]
upon him. And in Jeremiah xxiii. 5. 6. Behold the days shall come, saith the Lord, that I will raise unto David a righteous branch,-and this is his name whereby he shall be called, The Lord our Righteousness. That the Christians apply these texts to the Messias, I need not inform the reader: but it must be grateful to observe, that the paraphrases of Onkelos, Jonathan, and Jerusalem, all of them expressly attribute the prophecy of Balaam to the Messias. And Rabbi Moses Hadarsan and Maimon, say, he is here called a Star, (which signifies what Malachi expresses by the Sun of Righteousness. Mal. iv. 2. and Zechariah by the East. I will bring forth my servant the East. Zach. iii. 8. as it is translated in the Vulgar, Septuagint, Arabic, and Syriac) is here, say these Rabbins, called a Star, because he should come and destroy idolatry, among the heathen nations, by becoming a light to the gentiles, and the glory of Israel.As to the other two texts, the Jews do likewise attribute them to the Messias. Rabbi Joseph Albo, speaking of the words, The Lord our Righteousness, in particular, says expressly, that this is one name given to the Messias. Albo, Sep. ikker. lib. 2. c. 28. Thus do the Jews concur with us in the application of texts to the Messias. But what is become of this Messias, they cannot tell. They[Page 222]
are amazed, perplexed, and confounded about him. They dispute on the article, and have the wildest fancies in relation to it. Whereas the Christians give a clear and consistent account of the Messias, and by every argument that can be desired by a rational, prove the truth of christianity.Again: in Isa. ix. 6. we have these words: Unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulders: and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Or as the Alexandrian MS. hath is, He shall call his name the Angel, Wonderful, Counsellor, Mighty, the Governor, the Prince of Peace, the Father of the age to come. This is thought by all Christians to be a plain declaration of the Messias; for to apply it to any mere mortal, as to Hezekiah, or Isaiah's son, cannot be done without the greatest absurdity: and therefore Ben Maimon (epist. ad Afric.) fairly yields that these words belong to the Messias, and so doth Jonathan Ben Uziel in his Chaldee paraphrase. The Talmud itself allows it. Tract. Sanhedrim. that it relates to a person not come in the time of the prophets, but to the man, whose name is the Branch, which was to come forth out of the stem of Jesse, and to grow out of his roots. My servant the Branch. Behold the man whose name is the Branch. Zech. iii. 8. and ch. xii.[Page 223]
and Isa. iv. 1. Even the person that shall be sent; Shilo, that remarkable person God had promised to his people. So says the Talmud.But further; as to the birth of the Messias, in respect of the manner and the place, it is thus set down by the prophet Micah, v. 2. And thou Bethlehem Ephrata, though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall come forth unto me, that is to be ruler in Israel; whose goings forth have been of old, even from everlasting. -And in Isa. vii. 14. are these words, Behold a virgin shall conceive, and bring forth a son, and call his name Immanuel. In these two texts, (the Christians say) the place of the birth of the Messias, and the manner of it, are as plainly described as words can do; and if they cannot, without absurdity, be explained as relating to any other person, then it must be perverting the meaning of the records, to oppose this explication: but this the Jews are far from doing. The place is acknowledged in the Talmud, in the Chaldee paraphrase of Jonathan, and all their most famous masters declare with one voice, that Bethlehem indisputably belongs to the Messias. Exte Bethlehem coram me prodibit Messias, ut sit dominium exercens in Israel, cujus nomen dictum est ab æternitate, a Diebus seculi. (Talmud. lib. Sanhedrim, et Midrasch. The hillinic Rabbi Selemoh. paraph. Jonath. in Loc. Rabbi David Kimchi.) -And as to[Page 224]
the manner, tho' it be true that some Jews say, the Hebrew word Gnalma signifies a young woman as well as a virgin; yet Kimchi, Jarchi, and Selemoh, three of their greatest Rabbins, confess that here is something wonderful presaged in the birth and generation of this person, and that he was not to be born as other men and women are born. What can we desire more, in the case, from an enemy? And in truth, the behold, or wonder, with which the text begins, would be nothing, if it was only that a young woman should have a child:-and as to the Hebrew word Gnalmah, if it ever does signify a young woman, which I very much doubt, yet in the translation of the Seventy, who well understood the original surely, they render the word by parthenos, ???????? in Græc; which always signifies a virgin in the strict propriety of the phrase. And in the Punic language, which is much the same as the Hebrew, the word Alma signifies a virgin, virgo intacta, and never means a young woman.Such are the advantages we may gain by reading the books of the Rabbins; and to me it is pleasing to see these great Hebrew masters granting so much to us for our Messias, while they hate our holy religion beyond every thing. Even the gay among the Jews, (if I have been truly informed by one who danced a night with them) have, in contempt and abhorrence[Page 225]
of our faith, a country-dance, called The Little Jesus.§. 6.356 The eighth of July, I left the little Chartreuse, and went from thence to Knaresborough, where I arrived that night, and resided three days. It is a fine old town, and borough by prescription, in the West-riding of Yorkshire, and wapentake of Claro. The vast hills of Craven look beautifully wild in its neighbourhood, and the rapid river Nid, which issues from the bottom of those mountains, almost encompasses the town. It is 175 measured miles from London, and the best way to it is from Ferrybridge to Wetherby, the left hand road, where there is an excellent inn, and from that to Knaresborough.When this very antient town passed from the posterity of Surlo de Burgh, the founder of it, we know not, but we find that Henry III. Reg. 13. granted the honour, castle, and manor, to the Earl of Kent, Margaret his wife, and their issue and heirs, and that on failure of issue and right heirs, it returned again to the crown: for Edward the Second, among other lands, gave this lordship of Knaresborough to his favourite Pierse de Gaveston, Earl of Cornwall, and his heirs. Gaveston was taken not long after by the Barons, in Scarborough castle, after a short siege, and on Gaversly-heath, near Warwick, was beheaded[Page 226]
by order of the Earl of Warwick, June 20, 1312.By the fall of the insolent Gaveston, who had been banished by the great Edward the First, but recalled and received into favour by Edward the Second, before his father's funeral was performed; by the death of this favourite, who had involved his master's interest with his own, and rendered any displeasure against himself, the want of duty to the prince (just as Lord B * * *, and the now Outs did the other day) which ruined the miserable King; Knaresborough came again to the crown, and so continued till the 44th of Edward the Third, when this king made a grant of the honour, castle, and manor of this town, and the cell of St. Roberts; to John of Gaunt, the king's fourth son, who was Earl of Richmond, and created Duke of Lancaster, on his having married one of the coheiresses of Henry Duke of Lancaster. Other great estates were likewise given at the same time to this fourth son of Edward, that he might maintain his grandeur: and ever since, this town has belonged to the dutchy of Lancaster. It is an appendage to the crown.Not far from this town, are two wells, as strong of sulphur as Harrogate-water, and as valuable, though no one takes any notice of them. One lies in the way to Harrogate, in[Page 227]
a low ground by a brook-side. The other is Bitton-spaw, in a park by Mr. Staughton's house.357 As to the famous dropping-well or Petrifying water, it lies on the west side of the town and river, about 26 yards from the bank of the Nid. It rises 15 yards below the top of a mountain of marle stone, and in four falls, of about two yards each fall, comes to an easy ascent, where it spreads upon the top of an isthmus of a petrified rock, generated out of the water, which falls down round it. This isthmus or rock is ten yards high, and hangs over its base or bottom about 5 yards. It is near 16 yards long and 13 broad, and as it started from the bank about fifty years ago, leaves a chasm between them, that is about three yards wide. In this chasm, you will find petrified twigs of trees, shrubs, and grass-roots, hanging in most beautiful pillars, all interwoven, and forming many charming figures; and on the common side are whole banks like Stalactilites, hard and inseparable from the rock, where the water trickles down. These petrefactions, the falling water, and the little isthmus or island being beautifully cloathed with ash, osier, elm, sambucus, servicana major, geraniums, wood-mercury, hart's-tongue, sage, ladies mantle, cowslips, wild angelica, &c. form all together a delightful scene. -The first spring of this water is out of a small hole on the little mountain, in the[Page 228]
middle of a thick-set of shrubs. It sends out 20 gallons in a minute of the sweetest water in the world, and it is 24 grains in a pint heavier than common water.358 Most people are of opinion, that petrifying water is dangerous drink, and may produce abundance of mischief, in causing the stone and gravel in the body: the original particles or principles of the stony substance called spar, which are in abundance suspended in this kind of water, must get into the flood-gates of the kidneys and ureters, (as they opine) and create great misery in a little time.But this fear of petrefactions in living animal bodies is grounded upon neither reason nor experience; for the spar in these waters forms no petrefactions, whilst in a brisk motion, or in a temperate season, or on vegetables while they preserve their vegetating life. While there is warmth and circulation of juices, there can be no incrustation or petrefaction from the suspended stony particles. Besides, if the minims of spar are not within the spheres of sensible attraction, whilst in motion; much less are they so when mingled with the fluids of the human body: you may therefore very safely drink these limpid petrifying waters at all times, as a common fluid, if they come in your way, as the best, and most grateful or pleasant water in the world, on account of the infinitesimals, or original[Page 229]
leasts, of spar that are in them, in vast quantities, but infinitely small particles: and if you are sick, in many cases sure I am, they are the best of medicines. Human invention has nothing equal to them for fluxes of any part of the body, or colliquations from an acid salt. So far are they from being in the least dangerous, that in all unnatural discharges, by spitting, stool, or urine; by excessive menstrual or hæmorrhoidal fluxes, in the fluor albus, diabetes, profuse sweatings; in the diarrhœa, dysentry, or lienteria (where the springs are not quite worn out:) in ulcers of the viscera, hectic fevers, atrophy, and colliquations or night sweats, there is not any thing in physic more profitable or pleasant, to recover a patient. Let your dose, in such cases, be three half-pints of Knaresborough dropping-well in the forenoon; and before you begin to drink this water, remember to take two doses of rhubarb, to cleanse off the excrements of the first viscera. You must not drink ale, drams, or punch, during a course of these waters: and take but very little red port. You must likewise have a strict regard to diet. Let it be milk, eggs, jellies, barley-broth, chickens, kid, lamb, and the like. You must avoid all salt, sharp, stimulating things, day-sleep, and night-air: but agreeable conversation, and diversions that require very little exercise, conduce to the success of[Page 230]
this kind of water, in the distempers I have mentioned. If such diseases are curable, you may expect a restoration of health.But, in the dropsy, jaundice, diminished or irregular menses; in hyppo, melancholy, stuffings of the lungs, obstructions of the viscera, stoppages of the lacteals and misentery, glandular swellings, king's-evil, or any case, where thinning, relaxing, opening, deterging, attenuation or stimulation are wanting, such water is death.Note, reader, there is another excellent petrifying-water at Newton-Dale in Yorkshire, N. R. thirteen miles from Scarborough. - Another near Castle-Howard, the fine seat of the Earl of Carlisle, ten miles from York. - Another, near Skipton, in that rough, romantic, wild and silent country, called Craven, in the West-riding of Yorkshire. -And one, called Bandwell, at Stonefield in Lincolnshire, west of Horncastle, which is 122 miles from London. These springs, and many that are not to be come at among the vast fells of Westmoreland, and the high mountains of Stanemore, have all the virtues of Knaresborough dropping-well; though Knaresborough-water is the only one resorted to by company: and as to this spring, I can affirm from my own knowledge, that it is as excellent, and truly medicinal, as the famous petrifying-water at Clermont. There is no manner of need[Page 231]
for Britons going to the mountain Gregoire in Basse-Auvergne.A Postilla, (12) 359Containing an Account of Wardrew Sulphur-water, -the Life of Claudius Hobart,-and A Dissertation on Reason and Revelation.In my account of sulphur-waters, I forgot to mention one very extraordinary spring of this kind, and therefore, make a postilla of it here, that the reader may find in one section all I have to say on mineral waters. - And as I found by the side of this water, a man as extraordinary as the spring, I shall add his life, to my account of the water, and a couple of little pieces written by him.
[Page 232]
360 In Northumberland, on the borders of Cumberland, there is a place called Wardrew, to the north-west of Thirlwall-castle, which stands on that part of the picts-wall, where it crosses the Tippel, and is known by the name of Murus Perforatus, (in Saxon, Thirlwall) on account of the gaps made in the wall at this place for the Scots passage. Here, as I wandered about this wild, untravelled country, in search of Roman antiquities, I arrived at a sulphur-spring, which I found to be the strongest and most excellent of the kind in all the world. It rises out of a vast cliff, called Arden-Rock, over the bank of the river Arde or Irthing, six feet above the surface of the water, and comes out of a chink in the cliff by a small spout. The discharge is fifty gallons in a minute from a mixture of limestone and ironstone. And the water is so very fœtid, that it is difficult to swallow it. The way to it is not easy, for there is no other passage than along a very narrow ledge, about nine inches broad, which has been cut off the rock over the deep river, and if you slip, (as you may easily do, having nothing to hold by) down you go into a water that looks very black and shocking, by the shade of the hanging precipice, and some aged trees which project from the vast cliff.This dangerous situation, and its remoteness, will prevent its being ever much visited, admirable as the spaw is; yet the country-people[Page 233]
thereabout make nothing of the ledge, and drink plentifully of the water, to their sure relief, in many dangerous distempers. - It is to them a blessed spring.361 The land all round here was one of the finest rural scenes I have seen, and made a pensive traveller wish for some small public-house there, to pass a few delightful days. Its lawns and groves, its waters, vales, and hills, are charming, and form the sweetest softest region of silence and ease. Whichever way I turned, the various beauties of nature appeared, and nightingales from the thicket inchantingly warbled their loves. The fountains were bordered with violets and moss, and near them were clumps of pine and beech, bound with sweet-briar, and the tendrils of woodbine. It is a delightful spot: a paradise of blooming joys, in the fine season of the year.§. 8.362 One inhabitant only I found in this fine solitude, who lived on the margin of the river, in a small neat cottage, that was almost hid with trees. This was Claudius Hobart, a man of letters, and a gentleman, who had been unfortunate in the world, and retired to these elysian fields, to devote the remainder of his time to religion, and enjoy the calm felicities of contemplative life. He was obliged by law to resign his estate to a[Page 234]
claimant, and death had robbed him of a matchless mistress, of great fortune, to whom he was to have been married. The men who had called themselves his friends, and as Timon says in Lucian, honoured him, worshiped him, and seemed to depend on his nod, ????????????????????????????, no longer knew him; jam ne agnoscor quidem ab illis, nec aspici ne dignantur me, perinde ut eversum hominis jam olim defuncti cippum, ac temporis longitudine collapsum pretereunt quasi ne norint quidem; ???????????????: so true (continued Mr. Hobart) are the beautiful lines of Petronius;

Nomen amicitiæ si quatenus expedit, hæret,   Calculus in tabula mobile ducit opus.Quum fortuna manet, vultum servatis amici:   Cum cecidit, turpi vertitis ora fugâ.
And so sweet Ovid says was his case,

Eandem cum Timone nostro sortem   Expertus naso, qui sic de seipso:En ego non paucis quondam munitus amicis:   Dum flavit velis aura secunda meis:Ut fera terribili tumuerunt æquora vento,   In mediis lacera puppe relinquor aquis.
So Hobart found it, and as his health was declining from various causes, and he had nothing in view before him while he appeared, but misery: therefore, he retired to Wardrew,[Page 235]
while he had some money, built the little house I saw on a piece of ground he purchased, and provided such necessaries and comforts as he imagined might be wanting: he had a few good books, the bible, some history, and mathematics, to make him wiser and better, and abroad he diverted himself mostly in his garden, and with fishing: for fifteen years past he had not been in any town, nor in any one's house, but conversed often with several of the country people, who came to drink the mineral-water: what he had fresh occasion for, one or other of them brought him, according to his written directions, and the money he gave them, and once or twice a week he was sure of seeing somebody: as the people knew he was not rich, and lived a harmless life, they were far from being his enemies, and would do any thing in their power to serve the hermit, as they called him: but he seldom gave them any trouble. His food was biscuit, honey, roots, fish, and oil; and his drink, water, with a little rum sometimes: He was never sick, nor melancholy; but by a life of temperance and action, and a religion of trust and resignation, enjoyed perpetual health and peace, and run his latent course in the pleasing expectation of a remove, when his days were past, to the bright mansions of the blest.
[Page 236]
Such was the account Mr. Hobart gave me of himself, (which made me admire him much, as he was but fifty then) and to convince me his temper had nothing Timonean or unsocial in it from his solitary life, he requested I would dine with him. He entertained me with an excellent pickled trout and biscuit, fine fruit, and a pot of extraordinary honey: with as much creme of tartar as lay on a sixpence, fused in warm water, he made half a pint of rum into good punch, and he talked over it like a man of sense, breeding, and good humour. We parted when the bowl was out, and at my going away, he made me a present of the following MS. and told me I might print it, if I could think it would be of any use to mankind. It was called, The Rule of Reason, with a few Thoughts on Revelation.§. 9.363 The throne of God rests upon reason, and his prerogative is supported by it. It is the sole rule of the Deity, the Mind which presides in the universe, and therefore is venerable, sacred, and divine. Every ray of reason participates of the majesty of that Being to whom it belongs, and whose attribute it is; and being thereby awful, and invested with a supreme and absolute authority, it is rebellion to refuse subjection to right reason,[Page 237]
and a violation of the great and fundamental law of heaven and earth.To this best, and fittest, and noblest rule; the rule of truth, we ought to submit, and in obedience to the sacred voice of reason, resist the importunities of sense, and the usurpations of appetite. Since the will of that Being, who is infinitely pure and perfect, rational and righteous, is obliged and governed by his unerring understanding; our wills should be guided and directed by our reason. In imitation of the wisest and best of Beings, we must perpetually adhere to truth, and ever act righteously for righteousness sake. By acting in conformity to moral truths, which are really and strictly divine, we act in conformity to ourselves, and it is not possible to conceive any thing so glorious, or godlike. We are thereby taught the duties of piety, our duties toward our fellows, and that self-culture which is subservient to piety and humanity.364 Reason informs us there is a superior Mind, endued with knowledge and great power, presiding over human affairs; some original, independent Being, compleat in all possible perfection, of boundless power, wisdom and goodness, the Contriver, Creator, and Governor of this world, and the inexhaustible source of all good. A vast collection of evidence demonstrates this. Design, intention,[Page 238]
art, and power, as great as our imagination can conceive, every where occur. As far as we can make observations, original intelligence and power appear to reside in a Spirit, distinct from all divisible, changeable, or moveable substance; and if we can reason at all, it must be clear, that an original omnipotent Mind is a good Deity, and espouses the cause of virtue, and of the universal happiness; will gloriously compensate the worthy in a future state, and then make the vicious and oppressive have cause to repent of their contradicting his will. It follows then most certainly, that with this great source of our being, and of all perfection, every rational mind ought to correspond, and with internal and external worship adore the divine power and goodness. His divine perfections, creation and providence, must excite all possible esteem, love, and admiration, if we think at all; must beget truth and resignation; and raise the highest resentments of gratitude. All our happiness and excellency is from his bounty, and therefore not unto us, not unto us, but to his name be the praise. And can there be a joy on earth so stable and transporting as that which rises from living with an habitual sense of the Divine Presence, a just persuasion of being approved, beloved and protected by him who is infinitely perfect and omnipotent?
[Page 239]
By reason we likewise find, that the excesses of the passions produce misery, and iniquity makes a man compleatly wretched and despicable: but integrity and moral worth secure us peace and merit, and lead to true happiness and glory. Unless reason and inquiry are banished, vice and oppression must have terrible struggles against the principles of humanity and conscience. Reflection must raise the most torturing suspicions, and all stable satisfaction must be lost: but by cultivating the high powers of our reason, and acquiring moral excellence, so far as human nature is able; by justice and the benevolent affections, virtue and charity, we are connected with, and affixed to the Deity, and with the inward applauses of a good heart, we have the outward enjoyment of all the felicities suitable to our transitory condition. Happy state surely! There are no horrors here to haunt us. There is no dreadful thing to poison all parts of life and all enjoyments.Let us hearken then to the original law of reason, and follow God and nature as the sure guide to happiness. Let the offices of piety and beneficence be the principal employment of our time; and the chief work of our every day, to secure an happy immortality, by equity, benignity, and devotion. By continual attention, and internal discipline, reason can do great things, and enable[Page 240]
us so to improve the supreme and most godlike powers of our constitution, and so discharge the duties imposed upon us by our Creator, that when we return into that silence we were in before we existed, and our places shall know us no more, we may pass from the unstable condition of terrestrial affairs to that eternal state in the heavens, where everlasting pleasures and enjoyments are prepared for those who have lived in the delightful exercise of the powers of reason, and performed all social and kind offices to others, out of a sense of duty to God. Thus does truth oblige us. It is the basis of morality, as morality is the basis of religion.This, I think, is a just account of moral truth and rectitude, and shews that it is essentially glorious in itself, and the sacred rule to which all things must bend, and all agents submit. But then a question may be asked, What need have we of revelation, since reason can so fully instruct us, and its bonds alone are sufficient to hold us;-and in particular, what becomes of the principal part of revelation, called redemption?365 The system of moral truth and revelation, (it may be answered) are united, and at perfect amity with each other. Morality and the gospel stand on the same foundation, and differ only in this, that revealed religion, in respect of the corrupt and degenerate state[Page 241]
of mankind, has brought fresh light, and additional assistance, to direct, support, and fix men in their duty. We have histories which relate an early deviation from moral truth, and inform us that this disease of our rational nature spread like a contagion. The case became worse, and more deplorable, in succeeding ages; and as evil examples and prejudices added new force to the prevailing passions, and reason and liberty of will, for want of due exercise, grew weaker, and less able to regain their lost dominion, corruption was rendered universal. Then did the true God, the Father of the Universe, and the most provident and beneficent of Beings, interpose by a revelation of his will, and by advice and authority, do all that was possible, to prevent the self-destructive effects of the culpable ignorance and folly of his offspring. He gave the world a transcript of the law of nature by an extraordinary messenger, the Man Christ Jesus, who had power given him to work miracles, to rouse mankind from their fatal stupidity, to set their thoughts on work, and to conciliate their attention to the heavenly declaration. In this republication of the original law, he gave them doctrines and commandments perfectly consonant to the purest reason, and to them annexed sanctions that do really bind and oblige men, as they not only guard and strengthen religion, but[Page 242]
affect our natural sensibility and selfishness. Religion appears to great disadvantage, when divines preach it into a bond of indemnity, and a mere contract of interest; but exclusive of this, it must be allowed, that the sanctions of the gospel have a weight, awfulness, and solemnity, that prove to a great degree effectual. Safety and advantage are reasons for well-doing.In short, the evidence of the obligation of the duties of natural religion is as plain and strong from reason, as any revelation can make it; but yet the means of rendering these duties effectual in practice, are not so clear and powerful from mere reason, as from revelation. The proof of obligation is equally strong in reason and inspiration, but the obligation itself is rendered stronger by the gospel, by superadded means or motives. The primary obligation of natural religion arises from the nature and reason of things, as being objects of our rational moral faculties, agreeably to which we cannot but be obliged to act; and this obligation is strengthened by the tendency of natural religion to the final happiness of every rational agent: but the clear knowledge, and express promises which we have in the gospel, of the nature and greatness of this final happiness, being added to the obligation from, and the tendency of reason or natural religion to the final happiness[Page 243]
of human nature, the obligation of it is thereby still more strengthened. In this lies the benefit of christianity. It is the old, uncorrupt religion of nature and reason, intirely free from superstition and immorality; delivered and taught in the most rational and easy way, and enforced by the most gracious and powerful motives.366 But if this be the case, it may be asked, Where are our holy mysteries-and what do you think of our Redemption? If natural reason and conscience can do so much, and to the gospel we are obliged only for a little more light and influence, then Trinity in Unity, and the Sacrifice of the Cross are nothing. What are your sentiments on these subjects?As to the Trinity, it is a word invented by the doctors, and so far as I can find, was never once thought of by Jesus Christ and his apostles; unless it was to guard against the spread of tritheism, by taking the greatest care to inculcate the supreme divinity of God the Father: but let it be a trinity, since the church will have it so, and by it I understand one Uncreated, and one Created, and a certain divine virtue of quality. These I find in the Bible, God, Jesus the Word, and a Divine Assistance or Holy Wind, (not Holy Ghost, as we have translated it): called a Wind, because God, from whom every good and perfect[Page 244]
gift cometh, gave the most extraordinary instance of it under the emblem of a Wind; and holy, because it was supernatural. This is the scripture doctrine, in relation to the Deity, the Messias, and the Energy of God; of which the Wind was promised as a pledge, and was given as an emblem, when the day of Pentecost was come; and if these three they will call a Trinity, I shall not dispute about the word. But to say Jesus Christ is God, though the apostles tell us, that God raised from the dead the Man Jesus Christ, whom they killed; that he had exalted him at his right hand, and had made him both Lord and Christ; and to affirm that this Ghost (as they render the word Wind) is a person distinct and different from the person of God the Father, and equally supreme;-this I cannot agree to. If the scripture is true, all this appears to me to be false. It is a mere invention of the Monks.As to Redemption, it may be in perfect consistence and agreement with truth and rectitude, if the accomplishment of it be considered as premial, and as resulting from a personal reward: but to regard the accomplishment as penal, and as resulting from a vicarious punishment, is a notion that cannot be reconciled to the principle of rectitude. Vicarious punishment or suffering appears an impossibility: but as Jesus, by adding the[Page 245]
most extensive benevolence to perfect innocence, and by becoming obedient to death, even the death of the cross, was most meritorious, and was entitled to the highest honour, and most distinguished reward, his reward might be our deliverance from the bonds of sin and death, and the restoration of immortality. This reward was worthy of the giver, and tended to the advancement and spread of virtue. It was likewise most acceptable to the receiver. It no way interfered with right and truth. It was in all respects most proper and suitable. These are my sentiments of Redemption. This appears to me to be the truth on the most attentive and impartial examination I have been capable of making.To this, perhaps, some people may reply, that though these notions are, for the most part just, and in the case of redemption, in particular, as innocence and punishment are inconsistent and incompatible ideas, that it was not possible Christ's oblation of himself could be more than a figurative sacrifice, in respect of translation of guilt, commutation of persons, and vicarious infliction; though a real sacrifice in the sense of intending by the oblation to procure the favour of God, and the indemnity of sinners: yet, as the author appears to be a Socinian, his account is liable to objections. For, though the Socinians acknowledge the truth and necessity of the revelation[Page 246]
of the gospel, yet, in the opinion of some great divines, they interpret it in such a manner, as no unprejudiced person, who has read the scriptures, with any attention, nor any sensible heathen, who should read them, can possibly believe. They make our Redeemer a man, and by this doctrine reflect the greatest dishonour on christianity, and its Divine Author.This is a hard charge. The Socinians are by these divines described as people who read the scriptures with prejudice, and without attention; men more senseless than the Heathens, and as wicked too; for, in the highest degree, they dishonour Christ Jesus and his religion. Astonishing assertion! It puts me in mind of an imputation of the celebrated Waterland in his second charge;-"What atheism chiefly aims at, is, to sit loose from present restraints and future reckonings; and these two purposes may be competently served by deism, which is a more refined kind of atheism. -Groundless and ridiculous calumny. True and proper deism is a sincere belief of the existence of a God, and of an impartial distribution of rewards and punishments in another world, and a practice that naturally results from, and is consonant to such belief; and if atheism aims to sit loose from restraints and reckonings, then of consequence, deism is the grand barrier to the purposes of atheism. The true[Page 247]
Deist is so far from breaking through restraints, that he makes it the great business of his life to discharge the obligations he is under, because he believes in God, and perceives the equity and reasonableness of duties, restraints, and future reckonings. The assertion therefore demonstrates the prejudice of Dr. Waterland, in relation to the Deists.And the case is the same in respect of the charge against the Socinians. It is the divines that are prejudiced against them; and not the Socinians in studying the New Testament. It is the grand purpose of our lives to worship God, and form our religious notions according to the instructions of divine wisdom. We examine the sacred writings, with the utmost desire, and most ardent prayer, that we may be rightly informed in the truest sense of the holy authors of those divine books; and it appears to our plain understandings, after the most honest labour, and wishes to heaven for a clear conception of holy things, that the Father is the supreme God, that is, the first and chief Being, and Agent; the first and chief Governor; the Fountain of Being, Agency, and authority: that the Christian Messiah, the Man Christ Jesus, was sent into the world to bear witness to the truth, and preach the gospel of the kingdom of God, that kingdom of God which is within you, saith the Lord, Luke xvii. 21. not a kingdom of Monks, a sacerdotal empire of power, propositions,[Page 248]
and ceremonies. He came to call sinners to repentance and amendment of life, to teach them the law of love, and assure mankind of grace and mercy and everlasting glory, if they kept the commandments, and were obedient to the laws of heaven; laws of righteousness, peace, giving no offence, and unanimity in the worship of the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ: but that, if they did not repent, and cease to be hurtful and injurious; if they did not open their eyes, and turn from darkness to light, from the power of satan unto God, and put on such an agreeable and useful temper and behaviour, as would render them a blessing in the creation, they would be numbered among the cursed, and perish everlastingly, for want of real goodness and a general sincerity of heart. This the Socinians think is what Christ proposed and recommended, as the only and the sure way to God's favour, through the worthiness of the Lamb that was slain. We say this is pure religion. It is true, original christianity, and if the glorious design of our Lord is answered by his miracles and preaching, by his death, his resurrection, his ascension, and by the grace of the holy, blessed, and sanctifying Spirit, it could reflect no dishonour on christianity, and its divine author, if our Redeemer was a meer man. If by the assistance of God Almighty, a mere man performed the whole work of our[Page 249]
redemption, all we had to do was to be thankful for the mighty blessing. The love of God in this way had been equally inestimable. The worth of Jesus would be still invaluable.But it is not the opinion of the Socinians that Christ was a mere man. It is plain from this assertion, that the Rev. Dr. Heathcote, (in his Remarks on free and candid Disquisitions) knows nothing of them: the account they give of Jesus Christ, is very different. They say, he was a most glorious agent united to a human body, and so far from being a mere man, that he was superior to angels. He was the next in character to the necessarily existing Being. He is the brightness of the Father's glory, and the express image of his person: he has an excellency transcendent, and to the life represents what is infinitely great and perfect.If they do not allow that he made the worlds, or had an eternal generation; if they say, he had no existence till he was formed by the power of God in the womb, and assert this eminency is proper to the Man Christ Jesus; yet they are far from affirming he was therefore a mere man: no; they believe he was decreed to be as great and glorious as possible, and that God made the world for him; that he was made the image of the invisible person of the Father; an image the most[Page 250]
express and exact; as great as God himself could make it; and of consequence, so transcendent in all perfections, that what he says and does is the same thing as if God had spoken and acted. This is not making him a mere man. No: they say he is the first of all, and the head of all creatures, whom the infinite love of God produced, to promote greatness, glory, and happiness among the creatures, by the superlative greatness and glory of Jesus; and that angels, and the spirits of the just made perfect, might have the pleasure of beholding and enjoying the presence of this most glorious Image, that is, of seeing their invisible Creator in his Image Jesus Christ. He is not a mere man; but the brightness of the glory of God, the express Image of his person, and raised so much higher than the angels, as he has inherited from God a more excellent name than they, to wit, the name of Son, and is the appointed heir of all things.So that this Socinianism reflects no dishonour on Christianity and its Divine Author. It conduces as much to the glory of God, and the benefit of man, as any christianity can do. There is something vastly beautiful and satisfactory in the notion of Christ's being the most glorious Image of the invisible Father, whenever his existence began. The many transcendent excellencies of the Messias, in whom[Page 251]
all fulness dwells, are exercised upon men to their happiness, and to his glory; and we learn from thence, that greatness and glory are the result of the exercise of virtue to the relief and happiness of others. The Redeemer of the world is, in this account, the next in dignity and power to the Great God; and the perfections of the Father do most eminently shine forth in him. We are hereby made meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light, and delivered from the power of darkness. We give thanks unto the Father, who hath translated us into the kingdom of the Son of his love.It is certain then that the divines have misrepresented the people, who are injuriously called Socinians, as the religion they profess is Scripture-Christianity: I say injuriously, because, in the first place, the word Socinian is intended as a term of great reproach to christians, who deserve better usage for the goodness of their manners, and the purity of their faith: and in the next place, that Socinus was so far from being the author of our religion, that he was not even the first restorer of it. He did not go to Poland to teach the people there his religious notions, but because there was a unitarian congregation there, with whom he might join in the worship of the Father, through Jesus the Mediator, as his[Page 252]
conscience would not suffer him to assemble with those who worship a Being compounded of three divine persons.But it is time to have done, and I shall conclude in the words of a good author in old French * 367 . The extract must be a curious thing to the reader, as the valuable book I take it from is not to be bought.Nostre confession de foy até depuis la premiere predication de l'evangile puisque nous luy donnons la sainte ecriture pour fondement, mais il arrive de nous ce qu'il arrive dés tous ceux qui se sont detachés de l'eglise Romaine aux quels le papistes donnent malgré eux pour autheurs de leur religion Luther, Calvin, & autres docteurs qui n'ont eté que les restorateurs, des dogmes & de veritès qui s'etoyent presque perdues sous le gouvernement tyrannique de l'eglise Romaine pendant lequel l'ecriture sainte etoit devenue un livre inconnu a la pluspart de chretiens la lecture en ayant été defendue communement. Mais par un decret de la providence de Dieu le periode de la revolution etant venu chacun a commencé a deterrer la verité la mieux qu'il a pu, & comme dans chaque revolution il y a des chefs & des gens illustres, ainsi dans le retablissement des dogmes etouffès si long-tems par le papisme Luther, Calvin, Arminius, & Socin, ont été des hommes illustres[Page 253]
& dont on a donné le nom aux religions, Vous sçaurez donc s'il vous plaist que Socin bien loin d'avoir été autheur de nostre religion n'en a pas été meme la premier restaurateur: car il n'etoit venu en Pologne que parce qu'il avoit appris qu'il s'y etoit deja formée une assemblée de gens qui avoyent des opinions semblables aux siennes: Je vous diray de plus, que la seule chose que le fait un heros dans nostre religion c'est qu'il en a ecrit des livres, mais il ny a presque personne qui les lise, car comme Socin etoit un bon jurisconsulte il est extremement long & ennuyeux; & outre que nous ne voulous point avoir d'autre livre de religion que le nouveau Testament & point d'autres docteurs que les apostres. C'est pourquoy, c'est bien malgré nous qu'on nous appelle Sociniens ou Arriens: ce sont des noms dont la malignité de nos ennemys nous couvre pour nous rendre odieux. Nous appellons entre nous du simple nom de Chretiens. Mais puisque dans cette desunion de la chretienté, on nous dit qu'il ne suffit pas de porter ce nom universel, mais qu'il encore necessairement se distinguer par quelque appellation particuliere, nous consentons donc de porter le nom de chretiens unitaires pour nous distinguer de chretiens trinitaires. Ce nom de chretiens unitaires nous convient fort bien comme a ceux qui ne voulant en aucune façon encherye sur la doctrine de Jesus Christ,[Page 254]
n'y y subtiliser plus qu'il ne faut, attachent leur croyance & leur confession positivement a cette instruction de Jesus Christ qui se trouve dans le 17 chap. de l'evangile de St. Jean, quand il dit-Mon pere l'heure est venue, glorifiez vostre fils afin que vostre fils vous glorifie, comme vous luy avez donné puissance sur tous les hommes a fin qu'il donne la vie eternelle a tous ceux que vous luy avez donné; or la vie eternelle consiste a vous connoistre, vous qui estes le seul Dieu veritable, & Jesus Christ que vous avez envoyé. La meme leçon nous donne l'apostre St. Paul dans le 8 chap. aux Cor. disant,-qu'il n'y a pour nous qu'un seul Dieu qui est la pere duquel sont toutes choses & nous pour luy, & il n'y a qu'un seul seigneur qul est Jesus Christ, par lequel sont toutes choses & nous par luy. C'est donc a cause de cette confession que nous nous appellons chretiens unitaires par ce que nous croyons qu'il n'y a qu'un seul Dieu, pere & Dieu de nostre seigneur Jesus Christ, celuy que Jesus Christ nous a appris d'adorer, & lequel il a aussy adoré luy meme, l'appellent non seulment nostre Dieu mais son Dieu aussy selon qu'il a dit, je m'en vay a mon pere & vostre pere, a mon Dieu & a vostre Dieu.Ainsy vous voyez que nous nous tenons aux verités divines. Nous avons la religieuse veneration pour la sainte ecriture. Avec tout cela[Page 255]
nous sommes serviteurs tres humble des messieurs les trinitaires,-penes quos mundanæ fabulæ actio est, & il ne tient pas a nous que nous ne courrions de tout nostre cœur a leurs autels, s'ils vouloyent nous faire la grace de souffrir nostre simplicité en Jesus Christ, & de ne pas vouloir nous obliger a la confession de supplements a la sainte ecriture * 368 .§. 8.369 The great and excellent Faustus Socinus was born at Sienna, in the year 1539, and died at Luclavie, the third of March, 1604, aged 65. His book in defence of the authority of the sacred scriptures is a matchless performance; and if he had never written any thing else, is alone sufficient to render his memory glorious, and precious to all true christians. Get this book, if you can. It is the finest defence of your Bible that was ever published. (Steinfurti, A. 1611. edit. Vorst.) And yet, such is the malignity of orthodoxy, that a late great prelate, Dr. Smalbroke, Bp. of Litchfield and Coventry, (who died A. D. 1749) could not help blackening the author when he mentioned the work: his words are these;-"" &c. 2d charge to[Page 256]
the clergy of St. David's, p. 34. -Here the admirable Faustus, a man of as much piety, and as good morals, as hath lived since the apostles time, who truly and godly served the almighty and everlasting God, through our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, is painted by this eminent hand a man of ill fame; and for no other reason but because his heavenly religion made him oppose the orthodox heresy of three Gods, as taught in the creed of Athanasius; and piously labour, by the purity of his doctrine and example, to keep the world from corruption.Let us then be careful to confess the holy unitarian faith. Let us take the advice of Socinus, and be original christians. Let there not be in our religion a God compounded of three supreme spirits, equal in power and all possible perfections. Let us worship the Invisible Father, the first and chief Almighty Being, who is one supreme universal Spirit, of peerless Majesty; and, as the inspired apostles direct, let us worship him through his most glorious Image, the Man Christ Jesus; our Redeemer and Mediator, our King and our Judge.N. B. Though the reverend Dr. Heathcote hath been very unfriendly in his account of the Christians he calls Socinians, in his Observations before mentioned, yet you are not from thence to conclude that he belongs[Page 257]
to the Orthodox Party. He is far from it. and therefore I recommend to your perusal not only his Cursory Animadversions upon free and candid Disquisitions, and his finer Boyle-Lecture Sermons on the Being of God, but also his Cursory Animadversions upon the Controversy, concerning the miraculous Powers, and his Remarks on Chapman's Credibility of the Fathers Miracles. They are three excellent pamphlets. The first is against the scholastic Trinity. And the others on the side of Doctor Middleton, against the miracles of the Fathers.Note Reader, Dr. Heathcote's two pamphlets on the side of Dr. Middleton, and the Rev. Mr. Toll's admirable pieces in vindication of the Doctor against the miracles of the Fathers, will give you a just and full idea of the late controversy. Mr. Toll's pieces are called---A Defence of Dr. Middleton's Free Enquiry---Remarks upon Mr. Church's Vindication ---And his Sermon and Appendix against Dr. Church's Appeal.And if you would see all that can be said in relation to this matter, get likewise Dr. Syke's Two previous Questions: and the Two previous Questions impartially considered; by the same author.Remarks on two Pamphlets against Dr. Middleton's Introductory Discourse: ---Two Letters to the Rev. Mr. Jackson, in Answer to his Remarks on Middleton's Free Inquiry: --- And, A View of the Controversy, concerning[Page 258]
the miraculous Powers, supposed to have subsisted in the Christian Church through several successive Centuries.These pamphlets will bind into two large octavo volumes, and make a valuable collection of critical religious learning.Note, Reader, of that admirable work, called Bibliotheca Fratrum Polonorum, by Socinus, Crellius, Sclichtingius, and Wolzgoenius, 6 tomes, fol. Irenopoli 1656. The first and second volumes are the writings of Socinus; the third and fourth by Crellius; the fifth by Sclichtingius; and the sixth by Wolzogenius: they are all well worth your reading, as they contain the most valuable and excellent learning; and especially Socinus and Crellius. In another place, (where you will find me alone in a solitude) I shall give some curious extracts from the works of these great, injured men, and a summary of their lives.
[Page 259]

SECTION VIII.

When Love's well tim'd, 'tis not a fault to love;The strong, the brave, the virtuous, and the wise,Sink in the soft captivity together.
[§. 1.]370 From Knaresborough, I went to Harrogate again, and there found the following letter, of an old date, left for me.
"Sir,As you told me, you intended to go to London soon, and business obliges me to ride up to the capital a few weeks hence, I should take it as a great favour, if you would make Westmoreland your way, and through Lancashire to the Chester road, that I may have your protection and guidance in this long journey.""I am, Sir,Your humble servant,Maria Spence."Cleator, six miles tothe south-west ofWharton-Hall.This letter surprized me. Yes, dear creature, I said, I will make Westmoreland my way to London. At four in the morning I mounted my horse, and rid to Cleator. I arrived there at six in the evening, and had travelled that day 75 miles; to wit, from[Page 260]
Harrogate to Boroughbridge, 8; from thence to Catarric, 22; to Gretabridge, 15; to Bows, 6; to Brugh in Westmoreland, 12; to Kirby-Steven, near Wharton-Hall, 6; to Cleator, 6:-75 miles. I dined at Catarric on a hot pigeon-pye just drawn, and ale of one ear, that is, admirable, (as Rabelais means by the phrase, "" alluding to the one shake of the head to the right shoulder, when a thing is excellent); and I gave the horses another feed of corn at Bows, the George, kept by Railton the Quaker (an excellent inn, and the master of it an instructive and entertaining orator). I mention these things for your benefit, reader, that you may know where to stop to advantage, if you should ever ride over the same ground I went that day. (13) 371 .
[Page 261]
When I came to Miss Spence's door, I sent in my name by a servant, and immediately Maria came out herself to welcome me to Cleator. She told me she was glad to see me, and extremely obliged to me, for riding so many miles out of my way, to travel up with her to London; but as she had never been further from home than Harrogate, and was afraid of going such a journey by herself, she writ to me, in hopes curiosity and my great complaisance to the ladies, might induce me to take Cleator in my way to town, tho' so much about: but as so many weeks had passed since she came away from the Wells, and she heard nothing of me, she had laid aside all expectation of my coming. This made the visit the more pleasing.
[Page 262]
In answer to this, I replied, that if I had got her letter sooner, I would have been with her long before: but that was not possible, as I had been at a little lodge and farm of mine in the northern extremity of Westmoreland, to settle things there, and returned[Page 263]
to Harrogate but yesterday, when I had the honour of receiving your letter, and upon reading it, set out at day-break this morning to kiss your hand, and execute any commands.
[Page 264]

§. 2.372 Here an excellent hot supper was brought in, and after it, Miss Spence said, she was surprized to hear I was an inhabitant of Westmoreland, as she had never heard of[Page 265]
me in the north, nor seen me at Harrogate before the other day.I told her I was a stranger in the county, and by a wonderful accident, as I travelled a[Page 266]
few years ago out of curiosity, and in search of a friend, up Stanemore-hills, I became possessed of a lodge I had on the northern edge[Page 267]
of Westmoreland, where I lived a considerable time, and once imagined I should never leave it, as it is the most romantic and the most beautiful solitude in the world.
[Page 268]
While I was giving this short relation, Miss Spence seemed greatly amazed, and her uncle, an old clergyman, who had looked with great attention at me, hoped it would be no offence to ask me how old I was.None at all, Sir, I replied. I want some months of twenty-six; and though I dance and rattle at the wells, and am now going up to London, where all is tumult and noise,[Page 269]
yet my passion for still life is so great, that I prefer the most silent retreat to the pleasures and splendors of the greatest town. If it was in my power to live as I please, I would pass my days unheard of and unknown, at Orton-Lodge, so my little silent farm is called, near the southern confines of Cumberland, with some bright partner of my soul. I am sure I should think it a compleat paradise to live in that distant solitude with a woman of Miss Spence's form and mind.But tell me, I request, Maria said, how did you get to the confines of Westmoreland over Stanemore hills, and what was that accident that put you in possession of Orton-Lodge? It must be a curious account, I am sure.This, I replied, you shall hear to-morrow morning after breakfast; there is not time for it now. All I can say at present is, that it was love kept me among the mountains for some years, and if the heaven-born maid (vastly like you, Miss Spence, she was) had not, by the order of heaven, been removed to the regions of immortality and day, I should not have left the solitude, nor would you ever have seen me at Harrogate: but destiny is the dirigent: mutable is the condition of mortals, and we are blind to futurity and the approaches of fate. This led me over the vast mountains of Stanemore, enabled me[Page 270]
to cross the amazing fells of Westmoreland, and brought me to that spot, where I had the honour and happiness of becoming acquainted with Miss Spence. Thus did we chat till eleven, and retired to our chambers.But the old gentleman, the doctor, when he came with me into my apartment, told me we must have one bottle more, for it was his nightcap, without which he could not sleep: he then bid the servant make haste with it, and when that was out, we had another. He was a sensible agreeable man, and pleased me very much, as he appeared a zealous friend to the illustrious house of Hanover; whereas almost all the clergymen I had been in company with since I came to England, were Jacobites, and very violent ones.§. 3.373 I remember, among other things, I asked this Divine, over our wine,---If popery is ever so corrupt, could men be debarred of their rights for an attachment to it? -Are not crowns hereditary? - And is not treason in our country stamped with so peculiar an infamy, as involving the delinquent's innocent children in the forfeitures, or penal consequences that await it, on purpose to check the rebellion of Britons by such an accumulated punishment of evil doers?
[Page 271]
To this the doctor replied, that the exclusion of a popish prince must be lawful, if we ought to secure our property and religion, and, as in duty bound, oppose his trampling upon the laws, and his own solemn declarations. If the people have privileges and interests, they may defend them, and as justifiably oppose notorious domestic oppressions, as foreign invasions. The head of the community, has no more a licence to destroy the most momentous interests of it, than any of the inferior members, or than any foreign invader. If a king has no passion to indulge, incompatible with the welfare of his people, then, as protection and obedience are reciprocal, and cannot subsist, the one without the other, it must be a crime in the people not to honour, and obey, and assist the royal authority. It is not only the interest but the duty of the subject to obey the prince, who is true to the important trust reposed in him, and has the welfare of the people at heart. But such a king cannot be a papist. The Romish prince will not only stretch a limited prerogative into lawless power, and grasp at absolute monarchy; but will break through the most sacred ties, and subvert the rights he was sworn to guard, to re-establish popery in this kingdom. Could James the Second have kept the seat of government, and baffled all opposition, we may conclude from what he[Page 272]
did, from his trampling upon the laws, and his own solemn declarations; from his new court of inquisition (the high commission court) to subvert the constitution of the church of England, and to lay waste all its fences against popery; from that furious act of his power, which fell on Magdalen-college, and his two cruel acts of parliament in Ireland, (repeal of the act of settlement, by which the protestant gentlemen were deprived of their estates; and the act of attainder, by which they were to be hanged, for going to beg their bread in another country, after they had been robbed of all in their own by their king, who had sworn to protect them); from hence, I say, it is plain, that if James could have sat firm upon the throne, his misguided conscience would have induced him to the most inhuman acts of violence. He would have proceeded to the barbarities, and rekindled the flames of Mary. Had he continued to reign over these kingdoms, it is most certain, that instruction and persuasion only would not have been the thing, but where instruction and persuasion failed, imprisonments, tortures, death, would have been used, to compel us to believe all the gross absurdities of Rome, their impieties to God, and contradictions to common sense. We must throw away our reason and our bibles, the noblest gifts of heaven, and neither think nor speak,[Page 273]
but as we are bid by men no wiser than ourselves; or, we must expire under torments as great as the devil and the monks could devise. It was therefore necessary, for the preservation of our church and state, to exclude James and his popish heirs. The common welfare required this salutary precaution. The collected interest of the community is the primary end of every law.All this, I said, seems quite right. To be sure, during that short twilight of power, which dawned upon popery in England in the years 1689 and 90, its rage was imprudent. It did discover its fury and resentment. In one of the Irish acts you have mentioned, more than 2000 people were attainted, and some of them the most noble and venerable characters in Ireland. Yet had success attended the arms of James, this would have been but the beginning of sorrows. And probably a son of christian Rome would have proscribed more in these two islands, than in heathen Rome, out of the whole vast Roman empire, were given up to destruction for their virtue, by the cruel triumvirate, Augustus, Antony, and Lepidus: And of consequence, since dear experience convinced, it was equally absurd and vain, to imagine that a popish head would govern a protestant church by any councils, but those of popish priests, as it was to imagine that a popish king[Page 274]
would govern a protestant state by any councils, but those of popish counsellors; it must therefore be owned, that the Lords, and others, assembled at Nottingham, were just in declaring, that King James's administrations were usurpations on the constitution; and that they owned it rebellion to resist a king that governed by law; but to resist a tyrant, who made his will his law, was nothing but a necessary defence. This, to be sure, is just. But still, if crowns are hereditary, and one severe punishment of treason was intended to check all rebellion, were we not a little too hasty in the affair of the Revolution? And might we not have expected something better from the good sense and good nature of James, if we had waited a while, till he could see the folly of his proceedings?To this the Doctor replied, that as to James's good sense, it never appeared he had any: and in respect of his many real good qualities, they were extinguished by his bigotry, and could never be of service to a protestant spirit, the spirit of freemen: it was therefore incumbent on them, who knew and loved the invaluable blessings they enjoyed, to act as they did; that is, as the wisdom of our constitution requires in such cases.As to the crown's being hereditary,-and the severe punishment of treasons;-in respect[Page 275]
of the first particular, there is no natural or divine law declares crowns hereditary. If a certain rule of succession has been established in most kingdoms, the single point of view in it was public good, or a prevention of those intestine commotions, which might attend an election: But as every rule is dispensible, and must give way when it defeats the end for which it was appointed; should the customary succession in a kingdom prove at any time productive of much greater evils than those it was intended to obviate, it may questionless be superseded occasionally. This point is evident from reason. Though the crown in our own country is generally hereditary, yet that right is to be set aside, if the security of our civil and religious liberty requires it. If the pretence of James was a right to dominion, in opposition not only to the sense of the legislature, but to that of the nation, then the popish prince was justly excluded, for denying the public good to be the supreme law. Had the right he claimed been established, then our religion, our liberties, and the safety of our fortunes, had been no longer our own. In case of such establishment, the glory of our constitution was no more. The sum of the matter is, the royal family of the Steuarts being Roman Catholics, makes their case similar to an extinction of it.
[Page 276]
And as to the accumulated punishment of treason in Great Britain, that can only be designed as a powerful check to rebellion, against a king whose darling view is the welfare of the people. No infamy, forfeitures, or death, can be too severe for the man, who rebels against a prince that governs for the good of the people, and endeavours to transmit our state safe to posterity. To plot against such a sovereign is a great crime indeed. To conspire against a prince, whose life is of the utmost consequence to the community, is an enormity that ought to be stamped with a peculiar infamy, and punished in the severest manner. But it can be no treason to act against a papist, who violates every maxim of our constitution, and by every maxim of popery labours to destroy our religion and liberties. Every man may repel unlawful attempts upon his person and property, and is armed by God with authority for self-defence.To this it was replied, that I thought the Doctor quite right, and for my own part was determined to oppose a popish prince, whenever he comes on with his unalienable and indefeasible claim, to introduce his absurd and cruel religion, to deprive us of our rational christianity, and make us slaves, instead of free-born subjects. No popish James, to write our themes, but (filling a bumper) may this[Page 277]
nation be ever happy in a king whose right is founded upon law, and who has made it the rule of his government. May Britons ever remember the merciless rage of popery, and the envious malice of France; each ready to lay waste the whole fabric of our excellent constitution, and cry aloud, with all the embittered sons of Edom, Down with it, down with it, even to the ground. -Here the clock struck one, and we parted.§. 4.374 Early the next morning I was up, according to my wont, and walked out, to look at the place. Cleator is one of the finest spots that can be seen, in a wild romantic country. The natural views are wonderful, and afford the eye vast pleasure. The charming prospects of different kinds, from the edges of the mountains, are very fine. -The winding hills, pretty plains, vast precipices, hanging woods, deep vales, the easy falls of water in some places, and in others cataracts tumbling over rocks,-form all together the most beautiful and delightful scenes. All the decorations of art are but foils and shadows to such natural charms.In the midst of these scenes, and in a theatrical space of about two hundred acres, which the hand of nature cut, or hollowed out, on the side of a mountain, stands Cleator-Lodge, a neat and pretty mansion.[Page 278]
Near it were groves of various trees, and the water of a strong spring murmured from the front down to a lake at the bottom of the hill.§. 5.375 This was Miss Spence's countryhouse. Here the wise and excellent Maria pass'd the best part of her time, and never went to any public place but Harrogate once a year. In reading, riding, fishing, and some visits to and from three or four neighbours now and then, her hours were happily and usefully employed. History and Mathematics she took great delight in, and had a very surprising knowledge in the last. She was another of those ladies I met with in my travels, who understood that method of calculation, beyond which nothing further is to be hoped or expected; I mean the arithmetic of fluxions.Very few men among the learned can consider magnitudes as generated by motion, or determine their proportions one to another from the celerities of the motion by which they are generated. I question if the Critical Reviewers can do it (I am sure they cannot), though they have made so licentiously free with me. They may however pretend to know something of the matter, and so did Berkley, late Bishop of Cloyne in Ireland: yet that prelate, in reality, understood[Page 279]
no more of the method than a porter does, though he presumed to write against it, and the divine Newton, the inventor of it: I say it. But Maria Spence, in the 24th year of her age (at this time), was a master in the fluxionary way. She had not only a clear and adequate notion of fluxions, but was able to penetrate into the depths of this science, and had made sublime discoveries in this incomparable method of reasoning. She astonished me. I thought Mrs. Burcott and Mrs. Fletcher (mentioned in my first volume, p. 275.) were very extraordinary women, on account of their knowledge in algebra, and the fine answers they gave to the most difficult problems in universal arithmetic: but this sort of reasoning is far inferior to the fluxionary method of calculation; as the latter opens and discovers to us the secrets and recesses of nature, which have always before been locked up in obscurity and darkness. By fluxions, such difficulties are resolved, as raise the wonder and surprise of all mankind, and which would in vain be attempted by any other method whatsoever. What then must we think of a young woman well skilled in such work;-not only able to find the fluxions of flowing or determinate quantities, that is, the velocities with which they arise or begin to be generated in the first moments of formation (called the velocities of the incremental[Page 280]
parts), and the velocities in the last ratio's, as vanishing or ceasing to be; but from given fluxions to find the fluents;- and be ready in drawing tangents to curves; in the solution of problems de maximis & minimis, that is, the greatest or least possible quantity attainable in any case; in the invention of points of inflection and retrogression; in finding the evoluta of a given curve; in finding the caustic curves, by reflection and refraction, &c. &c.-this was amazing beyond any thing I had seen; or did ever see since, except Mrs. Benlow of Richmondshire, with whom I became acquainted in 1739. (See Memoirs of several Ladies of Great Britain, Vol. I.) With astonishment I beheld her. I was but a young beginner, or learner, in respect of her, though I had applied so close to fluxions (after I had learned algebra), that my head was often ready to split with pain; nor had I the capacity, at that time, to comprehend thoroughly the process of several operations she performed with beauty, simplicity, and charming elegance. Admirable Maria! No one have I ever seen that was her superior in this science: one equal only have I known, the lady a little before mentioned. And does not this demonstrate, that the faculties and imagination of women's minds, properly cultivated, may equal those of the greatest[Page 281]
men? 376 And since women have the same improvable minds as the male part of the species, why should they not be cultivated by the same method? Why should reason be left to itself in one of the sexes, and be disciplined with so much care in the other. Learning and knowledge are perfections in us not as we are men, but as we are rational creatures, in which order of beings the female world is upon the same level with the male. We ought to consider in this particular, not what is the sex, but what is the species they belong to. And if women of fortune were so considered, and educated accordingly, I am sure the world would soon be the better for it. It would be so far from making them those ridiculous mortals Moliere has described under the character of learned ladies; that it would render them more agreeable and useful, and enable them by the acquisition of true sense and knowledge, to be superior to gayety and spectacle, dress and dissipation. They would see that the sovereign good can be placed in nothing else but in rectitude of conduct; as that is agreeable to our nature; conducive to well-being; accommodate to all places and times; durable, self-derived, indeprivable; and of consequence, that on rational and masculine religion only they can rest the soal of the foot, and the sooner they turn to it, the happier here and hereafter they shall be.[Page 282]
Long before the power of sense, like the setting sun, is gradually forsaking them, (that power on which the pleasures of the world depend) they would, by their acquired understanding and knowledge, see the folly of pleasure, and that they were born not only to virtue, friendship, honesty, and faith, but to religion, piety, adoration, and a generous surrender of their minds to the supreme cause. They would be glorious creatures then. Every family would be happy.But as to Miss Spence, this knowledge, with a faultless person, and a modesty more graceful than her exquisite beauty, were not the things that principally charmed me: nor was it her conversation, than which nothing could be more lively and delightful: nor her fine fortune. It was her manners. She was a Christian Deist, and considered Benevolence and Integrity as the essentials of her religion. She imitated the piety and devotion of Jesus Christ, and worshipped his God and our God, his Father and our Father, as St. John expressly stiles the God of Christians, xx. 17. She was extremely charitable to others, and considered conscious virtue as the greatest ornament and most valuable treasure of human nature. Excellent Maria!§. 6.377 With this young lady, and her two servants (her footman and her woman,) I[Page 283]
went up to London. We set out from Cleator the 31st day of July, and without meeting with any mischief in all that long way, came safe to London. We were nine days on the road; and as the weather was fine, and our horses excellent, we had a charming journey. My companion was so agreeable, that had it been two thousand miles from Cleator to London, instead of 272, I should still have thought it too short. Her conversation was so various and fine, that no way should seem tiresome and tedious to him that travelled with her. Her notions and remarks were ever lively and instructive. It was vast pleasure to hear her, even on the driest and most abstruse subjects, on account of the admiration her discourse raised, and the fine knowledge it communicated, to one who understood her. I will give an instance.§. 7.In riding over the mountains the first day, we missed the road in the evening, and instead of getting to a very good inn, where we intended to rest, we were forced to stop at a poor little public house, and right glad to get in there, as the evening was tempestuous and wet, dark and cold. Here we got some bacon and fresh eggs for supper, and the ale was good, which amused us well enough till nine o'clock. We then proposed to play at cribbage for an hour, and called for a pack[Page 284]
of cards; but they had none in the house, and we were obliged to divert ourselves with conversation, till it was time to retire. Miss Spence began in the following manner.378 Was Newton, Sir, or Leibnitz, the author of that method of calculation, which lends its aid and assistance to all the other mathematical sciences, and that in their greatest wants and distresses? I have heard a foreigner affirm, that the German was the inventor of fluxions.That cannot be (I replied). In the year 1696, Dr. Barrow received from Mr. Newton a demonstration of the rule of the quadrature of curves, which the Doctor communicated to Mr. Collins; and as this is the foundation of fluxions, and the differential calculus, it is evident Mr. Newton had invented the method before that time.In the beginning of the year 1673, Leibnitz was in England, again in October 1676; and the interval of this time he spent in France, during which he kept a correspondence with Oldenburgh, and by his means with J. Collins; and sometimes also with Newton, from the last of whom he received a letter, dated June 18, 1676, wherein is taught the method of reducing quantities into infinite series, that is, of exhibiting the increments of flowing quantities. This method was utterly[Page 285]
unknown to Leibnitz, before he received the abovesaid letter of Newton's, as he himself acknowledges in a letter to Oldenburgh, dated August 27, 1676; for before that time, he says in his letter, he was obliged to transform an irrational quantity into a rational fraction, and then by division, after the method of Mercator, to reduce the fraction into a series.It is likewise certain, that Leibnitz did not then understand these series, because, in the same letter, he desires Newton would explain to him the manner how he got these series. And again in a second letter from Newton to Leibnitz, dated October 24, 1676, he gives yet clearer hints of his method, and illustrates it by examples, and lays down a rule, by which, from the ordinates of certain curves, their areas may be obtained in finite terms, when it is possible.By these lights, and assisted by such examples, the acute Leïbnitz might have learned the Newtonian method.It is plain he did so; for in 1684, he first published, in the Leipsic Acts, his Elements of the Differential Calculus, without pretending to have had the method before the year 1677, the year he received the two letters from Newton: and yet, when Sir Isaac published his books of the number of curves of the first kind, and of the quadrature of figures,[Page 296]
the editors of the Acts said Leibnitz was the first inventor of the differential calculus, and Newton had substituted fluxions for differences, just as Honoratus Faber, in his Synopsis Geometrica, had substituted a progression of motion for Cavallerius's method of indivisibles; that is, Leibnitz was the first inventor of the method, Newton had received it from him (from his Elements of the Differential Calculus), and had substituted fluxions for differences; but the way of investigation in each is the same, and both center in the same conclusions.This excited Mr. Keil to reply; and he made it appear very plain from Sir Isaac's letters, published by Dr. Wallis, that he (Newton) was the first inventor of the algorith, or practical rules of fluxions; and Leibnitz did no more than publish the same, with an alteration of the name, and manner of notation. This however did not silence Leibnitz, nor satisfy the foreigners who admired him. He abused Dr. Keil, and appealed to the Royal Society against him; that they would be pleased to restrain the Doctor's vain babblings and unjust calumniations, and report their judgment as he thought they ought to do, that is, in his favour. But this was not in the power of the Society, if they did justice; for it appeared quite clear to a committee of the members, appointed[Page 287]
to examine the original letters, and other papers, relating to the matter, which were left by Mr. Oldenburgh and Mr. J. Collins, that Sir Isaac Newton was the first inventor of fluxions; and accordingly they published their opinion. This determines the affair. When this is the case, it is senseless for any foreigner to say Leibnitz was the author of fluxions. To the divine Newton belongs this greatest work of genius, and the noblest thought that ever entered the human mind.It must be so (Maria replied): As the case is stated, Sir Isaac Newton was most certainly the inventor of the method of fluxions: And supposing Leibnitz had been able to discover and work the differential calculus, without the lights he received from Newton, it would not from thence follow, that he understood the true method of fluxions: for, though a differential has been, and to this day is, by many, called a fluxion, and a fluxion a differential, yet it is an abuse of terms. A fluxion has no relation to a differential, nor a differential to a fluxion. The principles upon which the methods are founded shew them to be very different; notwithstanding the way of investigation in each be the same, and that both center in the same conclusions: nor can the differential method perform what the fluxionary[Page 288]
method can. The excellency of the fluxionary method is far above the differential.This remark on the two methods surprized me very much, and especially as it was made by a young lady. I had not then a notion of the difference, and had been taught by my master to proceed on the principles of the Differential Calculus. This made me request an explication of the matter, and Maria went on in the following manner.Magnitudes, as made up of an infinite number of very small constituent parts put together, are the work of the Differential Calculus; but by the fluxionary method, we are taught to consider magnitudes as generated by motion. A described line in this way, is not generated by an apposition of points, or differentials, but by the motion or flux of a point; and the velocity of the generating point in the first moment of its formation, or generation, is called its fluxion. In forming magnitudes after the differential way, we conceive them as made up of an infinite number of small constituent parts, so disposed as to produce a magnitude of a given form; that these parts are to each other as the magnitudes of which they are differentials; and that one infinitely small part, or differential, must be infinitely great, with respect to another[Page 289]
differential, or infinitely small part: but by fluxion, or the law of flowing, we determine the proportion of magnitudes one to another, from the celerities of the motions by which they are generated. This most certainly is the purest abstracted way of reasoning. Our considering the different degrees of magnitude, as arising from an increasing series of mutations of velocity, is much more simple, and less perplexed than the other way; and the operations founded on fluxions, must be much more clear, accurate, and convincing, than those that are founded on the Differential Calculus. There is a great difference in operations, when quantities are rejected, because they really vanish; -and when they are rejected, because they are infinitely small: the latter method, which is the differential, must leave the mind in ambiguity and confusion, and cannot in many cases come up to the truth. It is a very great error then to call differentials, fluxions, and quite wrong to begin with the differential method, in order to learn the law or manner of flowing.With amazement I heard this discourse, and requested to know by what master, and what method, she obtained these notions; for they were far beyond every thing on the subject that I had ever met with. What she said concerning the nature and idea of fluxions,[Page 290]
I thought just and beautiful, and I believe it was in her power, to shew the bases on which they are erected.379 My master, Sir, (Maria answered) was a poor traveller, a Scotchman, one Martin Murdoch, who came by accident to my father's house, to ask relief, when I was about fifteen years old. He told us, he was the son of one of the ministers of Scotland, and came from the remotest part of the Highlands: that his father taught him mathematics, and left him, at his death, a little stock on a small farm; but misfortunes and accidents obliged him in a short time to break up house, and he was going to London, to try if he could get any thing there, by teaching arithmetic of every kind. My father, who was a hospitable man, invited him to stay with us a few days, and the parson of our parish soon found, that he had not only a very extraordinary understanding, but was particularly excellent at figures, and the other branches of the mathematics. My father upon this agreed with him to be my preceptor for five years, and during four years and nine months of that time, he took the greatest pains to make me as perfect as he could in arithmetic, trigonometry, geometry, algebra, and fluxions. As I delighted in the study above all things, I was a great proficient for so few years, and had Murdoch been longer with me, I should[Page 291]
have been well acquainted with the whole glorious structure: but towards the end of the fifth year, this poor Archimedes was unfortunately drowned, in crossing one of our rivers, in the winter time, and went in that uncomfortable way, in the thirty-sixth year of his age, to the enjoyment of that felicity and glory, which God has prepared for a virtuous life and honest heart. Why such men, as the poor and admirable Murdoch, have often such hard measure in this world, is not in my power to account for; nor do I believe any one can: but what I tell you is one of those surprizing things, and I lamented not a little the loss of such a master. Still however I continued to study by many written rules he had given me, and to this day, mathematics are the greatest pleasure of my life.As to our method, my master, in the first place, made me perfectly understand arithmetic, and then geometry and algebra, in all their parts and improvements, the methods of series, doctrine of proportions, nature of logarithms, mechanics, and laws of motion: from thence we proceeded to the pure doctrine of fluxions, and at last looked into the Differential Calculus. In this true way my excellent master led me, and in the same difficult path every one must go, who intends to learn Fluxions. It would be but lost labour for any person to[Page 292]
attempt them, who was unacquainted with these Precognita.When we turned to fluxions, the first thing my master did, was to instruct me in the arithmetic of exponents, the nature of powers, and the manner of their generation. We went next to the doctrine of infinite series; and then, to the manner of generating mathematical quantities. This generation of quantities was my first step into fluxions, and my master so amply explained the nature of them, in this operation, that I was able to form a just idea of a first fluxion, though thought by many to be incomprehensible. We proceeded from thence to the notation and algorithm of first fluxions; to the finding second, third, &c. fluxions; the finding fluxions of exponential quantities; and the fluents from given fluxions; to their uses in drawing tangents to curves; in finding the areas of spaces; the valves of surfaces; and the contents of solids; their percussion, oscillation, and centers of gravity. All these things my master so happily explained to my understanding, that I was able to work with ease, and found no more difficulty in conceiving an adequate notion of a nascent or evanescent quantity, than in forming a true idea of a mathematical point. In short, by the time I had studied fluxions two years, I not only understood their fundamental principles and operations, and could investigate, and give the solution of the most[Page 293]
general and useful problems in the mathematics; but likewise, solve several problems that occur in the phænomena of nature.Here Maria stopped, and as soon as astonishment would permit me to speak, I proposed to her several difficult questions, I had heard, but was not then able to answer. I requested her, in the first place, to inform me, how the time of a body's descending through any arch of a cycloid was found: and if ten hundred weight avoirdupoise, hanging on a bar of steel perfectly elastic, and supported at both ends, will just break the bar, what must be the weight of a globe, falling perpendicular 185 feet on the middle of the bar, to have the same effect? - My next questions were, how long, and how far, ought a given globe to descend by its comparative weight in a medium of a given density, but without resistance, to acquire the greatest velocity it is capable of in descending with the same weight, and in the same medium, with resistance? -And how are we to find the value of a solid formed by the rotation of this curvilinear space, A C D about the axis A D, the general equation, expressing the nature of the curve, being -How is the center of gravity to be found of the space enclosed[Page 294]
by an hyperbola, and its asymptete? And how are we to find the center of oscillation of a sphere revolving about the line P A M, a tangent, to the generating circle F A H, in the point A, as an axis? -These questions Maria answered with a celerity and elegance that again amazed me, and convinced me that, notwithstanding the Right Rev. metaphysical disputant, Dr. Berkley, late Bishop of Cloyne in Ireland, could not understand the doctrine of fluxions, and therefore did all he could to disgrace them, and the few mathematicians who have studied magnitudes as generated by motion; yet, the doctrine, as delivered by the divine Newton, may be clearly conceived, and distinctly comprehended; that the principles upon which it is founded, are true, and the demonstrations of its rules conclusive. No opposition can hurt it.When I observed, that some learned men will not allow that a velocity which continues for no time at all, can possibly describe any space at all: its effect, they say, is absolutely nothing, and instead of satisfying reason with truth and precision, the human faculties are quite confounded, lost, and bewildered in fluxions. A velocity or fluxion is at best we do not know what;-whether something or nothing: and how can the mind lay hold on, or form any accurate abstract idea of such a subtile, fleeting thing?
[Page 295]
Disputants (Maria answered) may perplex with deep speculations, and confound with mysterious disquisitions, but the method of fluxions has no dependance on such things. The operation is not what any single abstract velocity can generate or describe of itself, but what a continual and successively variable velocity can produce in the whole: And certainly, a variable cause may produce a variable effect, as well as a permanent cause a permanent and constant effect. The difference can only be, that the continual variation of the effect must be proportional to the continual variation of the cause. The method of fluxions therefore is true, whether we can or cannot conceive the nature and manner of several things relating to them, though we had no ideas of perpetually arising increments, and magnitudes in nascent or evanescent states. The knowledge of such things is not essential to fluxions. All they propose is, to determine the velocity or flowing wherewith a generated quantity increases, and to sum up all that has been generated or described by the continually variable fluxion. On these two bases fluxions stand.This was clear and just, and shewed that the nature and idea of fluxions is agreeable to the nature and constitution of things. They can have no dependance upon any metaphysical speculations, (such speculations as that[Page 296]
anti mathematician, my Lord of Cloyne, brought in, to cavil and dispute against principles he understood nothing of, and maliciously run the account of them into the dark;) but are the genuine offspring of nature and truth. An instance or two may illustrate the matter.1. A heavy body descends perpendicularly 161/12 feet in a second, and at the end of this time, has acquired a velocity of 32? feet in a second, which is accurately known. At any given distance then from the place the body fell, take the point A in the right line, and the velocity of the falling body in the point may be truly computed: but the velocity in any point above A, at ever so small a distance, will be less than in A; and the velocity at any point below A, at the least possible distance, will be greater than in A. It is therefore plain, that in the point A, the body has a certain determined velocity, which belongs to no other point in the whole line. Now this velocity is the fluxion of that right line in the point A; and with it the body would proceed, if gravity acted no longer on the body's arrival at A.2. Take a glass tube open at both ends, whose concavity is of different diameters in different places, and immerse it in a stream, till the water fills the tube, and flows through it. Then, in different parts of the tube, the velocity of the water will be as the squares[Page 297]
of the diameters, and of consequence different. Suppose then, in any marked place, a plane to pass through the tube perpendicular to the axis, or to the motion of the water, and of consequence, the water will pass through this section with a certain determinate velocity: But if another section be drawn ever so near the former, the water, by reason of the different diameters, will flow through this with a velocity different from what it did at the former, and therefore to one section of the tube, or single point only, the determinate velocity belongs. It is the fluxion of the space which the fluid describes at that section; and with that uniform velocity the fluid would continue to move, if the diameter was the same to the end of the tube.3. If a hollow cylinder be filled with water, to flow freely out through a hole at the bottom, the velocity of the effluent will be as the height of the water, and since the surface of the incumbent fluid descends without stop, the velocity of the stream will decrease, till the effluent be all out. There can then be no two moments of time, succeeding each other ever so nearly, wherein the velocity of the water is the same; and of consequence, the velocity, at any given point, belongs only to that particular indivisible moment of time. Now this is accurately the fluxion of the fluid then flowing; and if, at that instant, more[Page 298]
water was poured into the cylinder, to make the surface keep its place, the effluent would retain its velocity, and still be the fluxion of the fluid. Such are the operations of nature, and they visibly confirm the nature of Fluxion. It is from hence quite clear, that the fluxion of a generated quantity, cannot retain any one determined value for the least space of time whatever, but the moment it arrives at that value, the same moment it loses it again. The fluxion of such quantity can only pass gradually and successively thro' the indefinite degrees contained between the two extreme values, which are the limits thereof, during the generation of the fluent, in case the fluxion be variable: But then, though a determinate degree of fluxion does not continue at all, yet, at every determinate indivisible moment of time, every fluent has some determinate degree of fluxion; that is, every generated quantity has every where a certain rate of increasing, a fluxion whose abstract value is determinate in itself, though the fluxion has no determined value for the least space of time whatever. To find its value then, that is, the ratio one fluxion has to another, is a problem strictly geometrical; notwithstanding the Right Rev. anti-mathematician has declared the contrary, in his hatred to mathematicians, and his ignorance of the true principles of mathematics.
[Page 299]
If my Lord of Cloyne had been qualified to examine and consider the case of fluxions, and could have laid aside that unaccountable obstinacy, and invincible prejudice, which made him resolve to yield to no reason on the subject;-not to regard even the great Maclaurin's answer to his Analyst;-he would have discovered, that it was very possible to find the abstract value of a generated quantity, or the contemporary increment of any compound quantity. By the binomial theorem, the ratio of the fluxion of a simple quantity to the fluxion of that compound quantity, may be had in general, in the lowest terms, and as near the truth as we please, whilst we suppose some very small increment actually described: And whereas the ratio of these fluxions is required for some one indivisible point of the fluid, in the very beginning of the increment, and before it is generated, we make, in the particular case, the values of the simple increments nothing, which before was expressed in general: then all the terms wherein they are found vanish, and what is left accurately shews the relation of the fluxions for the point where the increment is supposed to commence. As the abstract value of the fluxion belongs only to one point of the fluent, the moments are made to vanish, after we have seen by their continual diminution, whither the ratio tends,[Page 300]
and what it continually verges to; and this becomes as visible as the very character it is written in.But Dr. Berkley was unacquainted with mathematical principles, and out of his aversion to these sciences, and zeal for orthodoxy, cavilled and disputed with all his might, and endeavoured to bring the matter to a state unintelligible to himself, and every body else. -Here Maria had done, and for near a quarter of an hour after, I sat silently looking at her, in the greatest astonishment.But as to our travels, the 10th of August we got safe to London, and the consequence of the journey was, that the last day of the same month, I had the honour and happiness of being married to this young lady.
[Page 301]

SECTION IX.
I am thinking with myself every day, (says one of the philosophers) how many things are dear to me; and after I have considered them as temporary and perishable, I prepare myself, from that very minute, to bear the loss of them without weakness.Cleanthes. (14) 380§. 1.381 Wise is the man, who prepares both for his own death and the death of his friends; who makes use of the[Page 302]
foresight of troubles, so, as to abate the uneasiness of them, and puts in practice this resolution of the philosopher. I thought of this the morning I married the beautiful and ingenious Miss Spence, (as related in the latter end of my eighth section), and determined if I lost her, to make the great affliction produce the peaceable fruits of righteousness. The man must feel, in such a case; the christian will submit. Before the end of six months, she died, and I mourned the loss with a degree of sorrow due to so much excellence, endearment and delight. My complaint was bitter, in proportion to the desires of nature. But as nature says, let this cup pass: grace says, let thy will be done. If the flower of all my comfort was gone-the glory departed! yet thy glory is, O man, to do the will of God, and bear the burthen[Page 303]
he lays upon thee. Let nature, grace, and time do their part, to close the wound, and let not ignorance impeach the wisdom of the most high. The cup which my father hath given me: shall I not drink? I will. I will not quarrel with providence. In short, I resigned, and not long after I had buried this admirable woman, (who died at her seat in Westmoreland,) I went into the world again, to relive my mind, and try my fortune once more. What happened there, I will report, when I have related the extraordinary case of my wife, Miss Spence, and the four physicians I had to attend her. It is a very curious thing.§. 2.382 This young lady was seized with that fatal distemper, called a malignant fever: Something foreign to nature got into her blood, by a cold, and other accidents, it may be, and the luctus or strife to get clear thereof became very great. The effervescence or perturbation was very soon so violent as to shew, that it not only endangered, but would quickly subvert the animal fabrick, unless the blood was speedily dispersed, and nature got the victory by an exclusion of the noxious shutin particles. The thirst, the dry tongue, the coming causus, were terrible, and gave me too much reason to apprehend this charming[Page 304]
woman would sink under the conflict. To save her, if possible, I sent immediately for a great physician, Dr. Sharp, a man who talked with great fluency of medicine and diseases.This gentleman told me, the Alkaline was the root of fevers; as well as of other distempers, and therefore, to take off the effervescence of the blood in the ebullitions of it, to incide the viscous humour, to drain the tartarous salts from the kidnies, to allay the preternatural ferment, and to brace up the relaxed tones, he ordered orange and vinegar in whey, and prescribed spirit of sulphur, and vitriol, the cream, chrystals, and vitriolate tartar in other vehicles. If any thing can relieve, it must be plenty of acid. In acidis posita est omni curatio. But these things gave no relief to the sufferer.I sent then in all haste for Dr. Hough, a man of great reputation, and he differed so much in opinion from Sharp, that he called an acid the chief enemy. It keeps up the luctus or struggle, and if not expelled very quickly, will certainly prove fatal. Our sheet anchor then must be the testacea, in vehicles of mineral water, and accordingly he ordered the absorbent powders to conflict with this acidity, the principal cause of all diseases. Pearl and coral, crab's eyes, and crab's claws, he prescribed in diverse forms;[Page 305]
but they were of no use to the sick woman. She became worse every hour.Dr. Pym was next called in, a great practitioner, and learned man. His notion of a fever was quite different from the opinions of Sharp and Hough. He maintained that a fever was a poisonous ferment or venom, which seized on the animal spirits: it breaks and smites them; and unless by alexipharmics the spirits can be enabled to gain a victory in a day or two, this ferment will bring on what the Greeks call a synochus, that is, a continual fever. In that state, the venom holds fast the animal spirits, will not let them expand, or disengage themselves, and then they grow enraged, and tumultuating, are hurried into a state of explosion, and blow up the fabric. Hence the inflammatory fever, according to the diverse indoles of the venom; and when the contagious miasms arrive at their highest degree, the malignant fever ariseth. The spirits are then knocked down, and the marks of the enemies weapons, the spots, &c. appear. This (the Doctor continued) is the case of your lady, and therefore the thing to be done is, to make the malignant tack about to the mild, and produce an extinction of the ferment, and relief of the symptoms. This I endeavour to do by alexipharmics and vesicatories, and by subduing the poison by the bark and the warmer antidotes. Thus did my Doctor marshal[Page 306]
his animal spirits, fight them against the enemy venom, to great disadvantage. If his talk was not romance, it was plain his spirits were routed, and venom was getting the day. His alexipharmics and warm antidotes, were good for nothing. The malady encreased.This being the case, I sent again in haste for a fourth doctor, a man of greater learning than the other three, and therefore, in opinion, opposite, and against their management of the fever. This great man was Dr. Frost. He was a mechanician, and affirmed that, the solid parts of the human body are subjected to the rules of geometry, and the fluids to the hydrostatics; and therefore, to keep the machine in right order, that is, in a state of health, an æquilibrium must be maintained, or restored, if destroyed. The balance must not turn to one side or the other. To restore sanity in acute cases, and in chronic too, our business is to prevent the vessels being elevated or deprest beyond the standard of nature: when either happens, the division of the blood is increased, the motion is augmented, and so beget a fever. There cannot be an inordinate elevation of the oily or fiery parts of the blood, till the vessels vibrate above the standard of nature.In a slight fever, the blood increases but little above the balance; but if more than one day, turns to a synochus, which is but the same[Page 307]
fever augmented beyond the balance of nature. This turns to a putrid synochus, and this to a causus. This is the case of your lady. From an elevated contraction (the Doctor continued, to my amazement,) her blood obtains a greater force and motion; hence greater division, hence an increase of quantity and fluidity: and thus from greater division, motion and quantity increased, arises that heat and thirst, with the other concomitant symptoms of her fever; for the blood dividing faster than it can be detached through the perspiratory emunctories of the skin, is the immediate cause of the heart's preternatural beating: And this preternatural division of the blood arises from the additional quantity of obstructed perspirable matter, added to the natural quantity of the blood.Things being so, (the Doctor went on) and the fever rising by the blood's dividing faster than can be detached by the several emunctories; and this from an elevation of the solids above the balance, we must then strive to take off the tension of the solids, and subtract the cause. This makes me begin in a manner quite contrary to the other physicians, and I doubt not but I shall soon get the better of the fury and orgasm, make an alteration in the black scabrous tongue, and by according with the modus of nature, throw forth the matter of the disease. I will enable[Page 308]
nature to extricate herself. I hope to disentangle her from the weight.Thus did this very learned man enlarge; and while he talked of doing wonders, the dry and parched skin, the black and brushy tongue, the crusty fur upon the teeth, and all the signals of an incendium within, declared her dissolution very near. As the serum diminished fast, and the intestine motion of the crassamentum increased, nature was brought to her last struggles. All the dismal harbingers of a general wreck appeared, to give the by-standers notice of approaching death. She died the ninth day, by the ignorance of four learned Physicians. -Had these Gentlemen considered the fever no otherwise than as a disease arising from some unusual ferment, stirred up among the humours of the blood, disturbing both those natural motions and functions of the body, hindering perspiration, and thereby giving quick and large accession to such parts of the aliment or liquors taken down, as are disposed to ferment; and there is always a strong disposition that way; for the blood has a three-fold motion,-fluidity, common to all liquors,-protrusive, from the impulse of the heart and arteries,-and fermentative, that is, a motion throughout of all its parts, which quality is owing to the dissimilar parts of the blood;-for being a compound of various particles, there must be a[Page 309]
colluctation when they occur, and of consequence, a continual fermentation: As this is just and moderate, it is for the good of the animal, and purifies the blood: if it is too much, it tends to a fever;-if it still increases, it produces the burning causus: Hard is the struggle then, and if nature cannot dispume, even helped by art, the patient has no hazard for life: Hence it is, that we are so subject to fevers,-and that it carries away more people than all the rest of the diseases: Out of every forty-two that have it, twenty-five generally die. It was so in the time of Hippocrates, 430 years before Christ: And so Dr. Sydenham and Dr. Friend found it, in their practice:But (I say) had my four Doctors considered the fever as I have plainly stated it, without vainly pretending to be so wise as to know the essential causes of it; and in the beginning of it, before the terrible appearances, the vigil, delirium, subsultus, the dry black tongue, the furred teeth, and the pale, unconcocted urine, had caused a depletion by large bleeding, had opened the pores by a mild sudorific, had then given a vomit, Rad, Ipecacuanha in small sack-whey or chicken-water, and let the sufferer indulge in that thin diluting liquor, an emulsion of the seeds and almonds in barley water, and if the patient required it, a draught of table-beer with a[Page 310]
toast, between whiles; had this been done very soon, there might be relief as quickly; or if the fever still run high, to bleed again, and wash down some proper alexipharmie powder with a proper cordial julap, it is possible nature would have been able to accomplish the work, and health had been again restored. I use the word proper alexipharmic, and proper cordial julap, because the Theriaca and Mithridatium of the shops, which are commonly, almost always ordered as an alexipharmic bole, are rather poisons than useful in a fever; and because the tincture and syrup of saffron, the treacle-water, or any other distilled compound, are not fit cordials in the case; but it should be the conserva lujulæ in an emulsion ex sem. fr. cum amygd. in aq. hordei. This is the true alexipharmic,-and the only cordial, to be given in a fever. -But it was the destructive alexipharmics and cordials of the shops they forced down Maria's throat, and this, with the other bad prescriptions and management, killed one of the finest and most excellent women that ever lived.And now to give the world a better idea of this admirable woman than any description of mine can exhibit, I shall here place a few religious little Pieces, which she writ, while Miss Spence, and which I found among her papers.
[Page 311]
Moral Thoughts: Written by Miss Spence.
MORALITY.
Abstract, mathematical, or physical truth, may be above the reach of the bulk and community of mankind. They have neither the leisure, nor the necessary helps and advantages to acquire the natural knowledge of arts and sciences. The many calls and importunities of the animal kind, take up the greatest part of their time, thoughts, and labor, so that the more abstract speculations, and experimental disquisitions of philosophy, are placed by providence quite out of their reach, and beyond their sphere of action.On the contrary, moral truth, right and wrong, good and evil, the doing as we would be done by, and acting towards all men as they really are, and stand related in society; these things are as evident to the understanding, as light and colors are to the eye, and may be called the intellectual, moral sense. Here needs no deep learning, or trouble and expence of education, but the same truths are as evident, and as much seen and felt by the learned and unlearned, the gentleman and[Page 312]
the ploughman, the savage or wild Indian, as by the best instructed philosopher. The divine perfections shine through all nature, and the goodness and bounty of the Creator to all his creatures, impress the obligation of imitating this wisest and best of Beings upon every man's heart and conscience.But notwithstanding the maxims of morality are thus solidly established, and adapted to all capacities; and though every man has a happiness to seek, and a main end to secure, which must be infinitely preferable to any concerns of life, yet here it is we find, that mankind in general have been most lost and bewildered, as if providence had placed their own happiness, and the way to it, more out of their power than any thing else. How this should happen, might seem unaccountable at first sight, and yet it can be no great mystery to any man tolerably acquainted with the world and human nature. It is no difficult matter to discover the reasons hereof, and it is withal highly useful to give them their due considerarion.1. The principal cause I take to be the prevailing strength and bias of private, corrupt, animal affection, and desires. Reason is silenced and borne down by brutal appetite and passion. They resolve to gratify their sensual appetites and desires, and will therefore never taste or try the superior pleasures and enjoyments[Page 313]
of reason and virtue. But such men as these having declared open war against their own reason and conscience, and being resolved at all risks to maintain the combat, must be self-condemned, and cannot plead ignorance, or error of judgment in the case.2. Another fundamental cause of moral error, is the prejudice and prepossession of a wrong education. False principles and absurd notions of God and religion, wrought early into the tender, unexperienced mind, and there radicated and confirmed from time to time, from youth to riper age, by parents, teachers, our most intimate friends and acquaintance, and such as we have the best opinion of, and confide most in; such causes make such strong impressions, that the grossest errors, thus rivetted and fixed, are with the greatest difficulty ever conquered or cleared off. In this case, men turn out well-grounded believers, and are well-armed against conviction. Circumcision or baptism fixes their religion in their infancy, and their church is as natural to them as their country. Free enquiry is with them an apostasy from the orthodox party, and as the great and sure tryal of their faith and fortitude, they will hear no reasonings about the holy religion they have taken upon trust.3. Then the few, who have applied themselves to the study of morality, have done it[Page 314]
for the most part in a manner confused; and superficial enough: and often so, as even to build upon principles either entirely false, or obscure and uncertain; either foreign to its proper business, or mixt up with gross errors, and absurdities. From whence it comes to pass, that in all languages, the terms of morality, both in common discourse, and in the writings of the learned, are such as have the most obscure, confused, indetermined, and unfixed ideas, of any other terms whatever; men for the most part despising the things which are plain and ordinary, to run after such as are extraordinary and mysterious; and that they either will not know, or reject even truth itself, unless she brings some charm with her, to raise their curiosity, and gratify their passion for what is marvellous and uncommon.In sum, the prejudices of the understanding, the illusions of the heart, and the tyranny established in the world with relation to opinions, form a grand obstacle to the serious study of morality; and to the attainment of a more exact knowledge of our duty. Nor is it to be expected that any will very much apply themselves to make discoveries in these matters, whilst the desire of esteem, riches, or power, makes men espouse the well-endowed opinions in fashion, and then seek arguments either to make good[Page 315]
their beauty, or varnish over and cover their deformity. -Whilst the parties of men, cram their tenets down all men's throats, whom they can get into their power, without permitting them to examine their truth and falsehood; and will not let truth have fair play in the world, nor men the liberty to search after it; what improvements can be expected of this kind? What greater light can be hoped for in the moral sciences? The subject part of mankind in most places might, instead thereof, with Egyptian bondage, expect Egyptian darkness, were not the candle of the Lord set up by himself in men's minds, which it is impossible for the breath of man wholly to extinguish; how much soever the infallible guides of one church, and the orthodox rulers of another, may scheme and labour to subject conscience to human jurisdiction, and bring the inward principle and motive of action within the cognizance of their political theocracy, or theocratic policy.After all this, is it to be wondered at, that such, whose occupations and distractions of life, or want of genius and outward helps, do not allow them to engage in long and profound meditations, are found to have generally understandings so short and narrow, and ideas so false or confused, in matters of morality.
[Page 316]
And since this is the case of the greatest part of mankind, it has no doubt been always God's will, that they, who had the greatest light, and whom his providence had furnished with the greatest helps, should communicate their knowledge to such, as were not able of themselves to acquire it so easily, or in so great a degree.RELIGION.
What is Religion? The true, eternal, immutable religion of God and nature, consists, as I opine, in the filial love and fear of God, and the brotherly love of mankind; in the practice of all those moral duties of truth and righteousness, which result from it, under a fiducial trust in, and dependence on God, and the constant sense of his power and presence in all our actions, as the rewarder of good and punisher of bad men. This is the religion founded in nature and reason, and which must be at all times and every where the same. As this religion was in a great measure lost, and neglected, amidst the general ignorance, superstition, and idolatry of the world, it was the great business and design of revelation to restore it, and set moral truth and reason in its original light, by bringing mankind to[Page 317]
the right use of their reason and understanding in such matters.383 After Epicurus and Zeno, there were no new succeeding schemes of morality, but each man betook himself to that sect, where he found what most suited his own sentiments.In the reign of Augustus, Potamo of Alexandria, introduced a manner of philosophising, which was called the Eclectic, because it consisted in collecting from all the tenets of preceding philosophers, such as appeared most reasonable; out of which they formed each man his own system of philosophy. -It appears from Cicero's works, that he was an Eclectic.And why should it not be good in religion, as well as in philosophy? I own I am an Eclectic in divinis. And the sum of my religion is, without regard to modes or parties, -so to live to the glory of the Father,- without attachment to the creature,-for the sanctification and happiness of mankind; that when this fleeting scene of sin and sorrow shall vanish, and pass away from sight, the angels of God may give my soul a safe transition to that heavenly happiness, which no thought can lay hold on, and which no art can describe.
[Page 318]
384 The practice of reason and truth is the rule of action to God himself, and the foundation of all true religion. It is the first and highest obligation of all rational beings, and our divine Lord came down from heaven to earth to teach it to mankind. Christ preached a plain doctrine to men, fitted to reform their hearts and lives-intended to make them perfect in self-denial, humility, love, goodness, and innocence, and to enoble them, with hearts raised above the world, to worship the Father in spirit and in truth.But this glorious religion the Romish priests have perverted into a system of mysteries, and staring contradictions, the better to support the worst and most deplorable purposes of temporal wealth, power, pride, malice, and cruelty. In direct opposition to reason and common sense, we must commence generous believers in an ecclesiastical christianity, and confess the symbol of their holy Athanasius, though it be no more, or better, than the effects of a luxuriant fancy, without likeness and correspondency, in the real nature and reason of things; 17, 4, and 19 are 41, says convocation to his believers, and your religion, my brethren, is all a tremendous mystery: You must adore as such, what the Infidels renounce as a contradiction.Thus shamefully do these priests sink the credibility of our gospel, and impose upon the[Page 319]
silly people, a ball of wax for the religion of Jesus; making them believe contrary to knowledge, and prefer a system that is a lye against the light of nature, and the gospel.But the chief end, duty, happiness, and highest perfection that man can arrive at, consists, and is found, in a perfect exercise of human reason.385 We read in Chronicles, that Hezekiah began his good reign with the revival of religion, which had long suffered by the neglect and profanation, or through the neglect and omission of his predecessors. To this purpose he opened the doors of the house of the Lord, and issued a decree, that all Israel should come to keep the passover, which they had not done of a long time. But as the legal cleansing and purifying, could not be performed by great numbers that did eat the passover, by the appointed time, on account of many things, and particularly the force of long interval and disuse; therefore this irregularity employed the devotion of the good king, as the canon of the passover, under the strictest prohibition, and the severest penalty, forbid any one to eat, that did not come with outward and legal purity, No unclean person shall eat of it; and he prayed for the people, saying, The good Lord pardon every one that prepareth his heart to seek God,[Page 320]
the Lord God of their fathers, though he be not cleansed according to the purification of the sanctuary; and the Lord hearkened unto Hezekiah, says the next verse, and healed the people, that is, took off the penalties of the canon, and gave them the benefit of the rite. From hence it follows, that, however defective we may be in outward rites and ceremonies of a church, yet inward truth and purity will be accepted in default of outward things. Inward disposition is the substance of religion, and may compound for the want of outward matters; but outward service can never be accepted instead of inward purification.And it farther follows, if the outward solemnities of religion cannot be obtained upon lawful terms, (which is the case of many, in respect of Popery and Athanasian worship,) then will the good Lord pardon and be propitious to those who prepare their heart to seek him, though they be not cleansed according to the solemn institution, and ritual purification.This text is in the vulgar Latin, Dominus bonus propitiabitur cunctis qui in toto corde requirunt Dominum, Deum patrum suorum, et non imputabit eis quod minus sanctificati sunt. -The good Lord will be propitious to all those, who in their whole heart seek the Lord God of their fathers, and will not impute[Page 321]
to them their being less sanctified than they ought.386 * 387 Histories in all ages are full of the encroachments of the clergy, yet they all omit one of the most successful stratagems to ingross money. We are indebted to our statute-book for informing us of one of the most notorious pieces of priestcraft that ever was practised. Would one believe, that there is a country, and in Europe too, where the clergy gained such an ascendant over the minds of the people, as tamely to suffer the moveable estate of every man who died intestate, to be swallowed up by them; yet so prevalent was superstition in our country, that it produced a law preferring the Bishop to the next of kin; and in its extension excluding the children, the wife, and the relations of the deceased, nay the creditor; and giving all to the Bishop per aversionem. Such was the shameful rapacity of the clergy here for ages. Such a monstrous practice was established upon this foundation, that the moveable effects of every deceased person, his own appointment failing, ought to be laid out for promoting the good of his soul; and so the Ordinary took possession, without deigning to account with any mortal. -This began[Page 322]
temp. Hen. I. when the Ordinary, for the good of the soul of the deceased, obtained a directing power, and was in the nature of an overseer, and somewhat more. In the time of King John, the Ordinary drew blood, as Bacon well expresses it * 388 ; for tho' the possession was as formerly, yet the dividend must be in the view of the church, and by which means, the dividers were but mere instruments, and the right was vanished into the clouds. But temp. Hen. III. it was settled, the Ordinary had not only gotten the game, but gorged it. Both right and possession were now become the clergy's: the Ordinary was to distribute it according to pious uses: and no use so pious as to appoint to himself and his brethren.The 1st statute that limited the power of the Ordinary was 13th Ed. I. c. 19. By this the Ordinary was obliged to satisfy the intestate's death so far as the goods extended. -And 31st Ed. III. cap. 2. the actual possession was taken from the Ordinary, by obliging him to give a deputation to the next and most lawful friends of the intestate, for administrating his goods. But this statute proved but a weak check to the avarice of the clergy. Means were fallen upon to elude it, by preferring such of the intestate's relations, who were willing to offer the best terms: this corrupt practice was suffered[Page 323]
in the days of Hen. VIII. when the clergy losing ground, the statute 21 Hen. VIII. was enacted, bearing, ""This statute, as it points out the particular persons who are intitled to letters of administration, without leaving any choice to the Ordinary, was certainly intended to cut him out of all hope of making gain of the effects of persons dying intestate. But the church does not easily quit its hold. Means were fallen upon to elude this law also. Though the possession given by this statute was wrested out of the hands of the Ordinary, yet his pretensions subsisted intire, of calling the administrator to account, and obliging him or her to distribute the effects to pious uses. This was an admirable engine in the hands of a churchman for squeezing money. An administrator who gave any considerable share to the Bishop, to be laid out by him, without doubt, in pious uses, would not find much difficulty in making his accompt. This rank abuse moved the judges solemnly to resolve, that the Ordinary, after administration granted by him, cannot compel the administrator to make distribution * 389 . And at last, the right[Page 324]
of the next of kin was fully established by statute 22 and 23 Car. II. cap. 10. This cuts out the Ordinary intirely.390 If I thought the Athanasian creed was a part of the religion of Jesus, I should be induced to entertain a hard thought of Christianity. I should think it enjoined a slavish submission to the dictates of designing men; and instead of a reasonable service, required us to renounce our understandings, to apostatize from humanity, and degenerate into brutes, by giving up our reason, which alone distinguishes us from them. Most unjust charge upon our holy religion! A religion, which enlarges our rational faculties, filling the mind with an astonishing idea of an eternal duration, and thereby giving us a contempt of the mean, transient pleasures of this life, and which we and the brutes enjoy in common: A religion that requires only the highest degree of reverence towards the Most High, the most refined purity of heart and mind, and the most noble and diffusive charity towards all mankind: In short, that establishes righteousness upon earth, and intire obedience to the will of God; that so having put the oyl into our lamp, according to the gospel parable, it may not only measure the course of time, but light us beyond it, to the coming of the bridegroom, and the morning of eternity.
[Page 325]
But this will not do for the Doctors, they must have established Credenda for judgments of all sizes-they must have a formulary of dogmatic theology-an Athanasian jumble, to support the Holy Church; though their creed burlesques mathematical certainty, and renders their ecclesiastical christianity inferior to the antient pagan religion. A trinity is the ecclesiastical God; but whether three distinct conscious beings of co-ordinate power, equal independency, and unorigination, and so THREE proper deities;-or, only three symbols of natural powers-In this the Doctors are not agreed; but the majority are for the THREE proper Deities: this heresy of three Gods we must subscribe to, or the priests will number us with the infidels, and do us all the mischief they can. -Hence it comes to pass, that humanity, sweetness of temper, and moderation, are banished from society; religion, like a cloak, is made use of to authorise hatred, violence, and injustice; and the christian religion, as the priests have forged it, and shew it off, that is, upon its present footing, as an establishment, is pernicious to mankind, and ought to go, that the people may be restored again to Christ's religion, and be led to attend to the command of God; which is to believe in the name of his son Jesus Christ, and to love one another.
[Page 326]
FAITH.
"" (Heb. xi. 1.) that is, faith is such a firm persuasion as gives, as it were, a substance or present existence to the good things which we hope for, and which are not yet in being, and as engages us to depend upon the truth of unseen things, as really, as upon ocular demonstration.-"" (ver. 27.) that is, Moses as really believed the being and attributes of the invisible God, as if he had seen him with his eyes; and fully depended upon his conduct and assistance.The better thing provided for Christians.
"" (Heb. xi. 39, 40.) that is,-Though the upright under the law have a good character in Scripture, and of consequence were accepted of God upon the account of their faith in the divine power and goodness, yet they received not the promised reward of another life, immediately on their leaving this[Page 327]
world: God provided this better thing for us Christians, that we should be made happy immediately, as soon as we leave this world, that so they might not be made happy in heaven, till Christianity commenced, and Christians should be there received to happiness with them.Note 1. It is plain from what the Apostle says before, that the thing promised is the better and more enduring substance in heaven.2. The better thing provided for Christians, cannot be the resurrection from the dead, and the being, after that, received into the heavenly Jerusalem; since herein we shall have nothing better than the good people who lived under the law: therefore, better things can only mean our enjoyment of God immediately upon our leaving this world.It is strange then that Bishop Fell, and Whitby say, the better thing means the Messias, or the heavenly country to be fully possessed at the end of the world.Of the same opinion is Pyle. -He says, our pious ancestors under the law, though in a state of rest and happiness, after death, yet received not the full and complete enjoyment of celestial glory, that being deferred till the last and great dispensation of the Messiah be[Page 328]
past, that so they and sincere Christians, may be all rewarded and crowned together, with the happiness both of body and soul, at the final day of judgment: But if so, tell me Mr. Pyle, where is the better thing provided for us Christians?3. Besides, if the Apostle may be his own interpreter, the word perfect means the intermediate state of good souls in paradise, and not the complete state after the resurrection. In the next chapter, he speaks of the spirits of the just made perfect, by which he means undoubtedly the separate souls now in glory.In a word, the design of the Apostle was to prove that, since God has provided some better thing for us, we appear to be more in his favour; and therefore the argument from their being justified to our being justified by faith, is stronger, that is, such a faith as has an operative influence, by rendering our lives a comment upon the blessed nature of God.And that this was the meaning of the Apostle in the something better provided for us Christians, appears yet plainer from the consequence drawn by the inspired writer, to wit, that we ought with the greater patience and courage to endure persecution, since God has provided something better for us[Page 329]
than for them. If the ancient believers held out, who expected but a state of sleep, till the time of the general resurrection: much more should we patiently suffer affliction, and even death itself, for the sake of truth, and of the gospel, when we know, that God has promised us something better; to wit, that we shall be conducted to paradise immediately after death, and be there spirits of just men made perfect, and be with Christ, which is far better than either to sleep after death, or to live longer in this world.Let us lay aside (then) every weight, and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us. Let us put away every thing from us, that would hinder us from improving in virtue and goodness; looking to and imitating Jesus, the leader and captain of the faithful, and an example of spotless virtue and perfect obedience. The love of the world is enmity with God, and to place our affections here, is to vilify that better provision which he has made for us. We are but strangers and pilgrims here. The human state is but a passage, not a place of abode. It is a station of exercise and discipline, and was not designed for the place of enjoyment. That happy country is before us.
[Page 330]
AVOIDINGS.
Avoid all indirect arts in the pursuit of a fortune. -All unlawful methods in self-preservation. -And every gratification that militates with reason and benevolence.The Offices of a Christian.
These are heavenly-mindedness, and contempt of the world, and chusing rather to die than commit a moral evil. Such things, however, are not much esteemed by the generality of Christians: Most people laugh at them, and look upon them as indiscretions; therefore there is but little true christianity in the world. It has never been my luck to meet with many people that had these three necessary qualifications. -And as for the people, exclusive of their going to church to make a character-or to ogle one another-or out of superstition to perform so much opus operatum, a job of lip-service, which they idly fancy to be religion, they, I mean the great and the small, might as well be Heathens as Christians, for any real christian purpose they answer, in a strict adherence to the three offices aforementioned. The name of Christian sounds over Europe, and large parts of Asia, Africa, and America:[Page 331]
But if a Christian is what St. Paul defines it, to wit, a man that is heavenly-minded, that contemns the world, and would die rather than commit a moral evil, then is the number of Christians very small indeed.The meaning of John vi. 44. No man can come to me, except the Father draw him.
That is,-No one can be a Christian, unless his regard for the Deity and natural religion inclines him to receive a more improved scheme of religion.But Dr. Young, in one of his sermons, explains this text in the following manner. - No one can live up to the religion of Jesus, and reach Christian perfection, unless the Father enlightens and enables him, by the operative influence of his holy spirit. We can do nothing, in respect of what ought to be done, to be more than nominal Christians, without the inward principle of sanctification. -This I think is mere methodism.N. B. The excellent Dr. Lardner expounds the text in the following words: - No man will come to me, and receive my pure, sublime, and spiritual doctrine, unless he have first gained some just apprehensions concerning the general principles of religion. And if a man have some good notions of God, and his perfections, and his will, as[Page 332]
already revealed, he will come unto me. If any man is well disposed: if he has a love of truth, and a desire to advance in virtue, and religious knowledge; he will readily hearken to me, and believe in me. Sermons, Vol. I. p. 303.Of Baptism, in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
What is the meaning of baptizing them into the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost?It signifies receiving men by baptism to the profession and privileges of that religion, which was taught by the Father, Son, and Spirit, that is, which the Father taught by the Son, in his life-time, and by the Spirit, after his ascension.Or, to be baptized, is solemnly to profess our resolution to adhere to that holy doctrine, which is the mind and will of God the Father, published to the world by his Son, whom he sent from heaven for that purpose, and confirmed by the power of the Holy Ghost.Note, An able writer, St. Hillary, says (De Trinitate, lib. 2. ad calcem, on Matt. xxviii. 19.) that baptising in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, signifies,-In confession of the author of all[Page 333]
things, and of the only begotten, and of the gift.Of Christian Idolatry.
What a surprising incident is idolatry in the church of Christ! that after the religion of Jesus had accomplished its glorious design, and subverted idolatry and superstition throughout the world, it should itself be wounded almost to death, by the enemy it had subdued! This is the case all over the realms of popery. And can they be said to have any true religion among them, where the theology of Athanasius prevails?Churchism and Creeds.
I have no very good opinion of creeds. Jesus Christ came with a legatarian power from God, the Supreme Being, to declare his will to mankind; and the great work to be done, (so far as I can find in the gospel,) is, the perfecting our minds in all that is truly excellent; by labouring to excel in all the virtues of the gospel, by loving the whole race of mankind with an universal charity, and striving to add to the satisfaction and happiness of all about us, and with whom we have any connexion.
[Page 334]

SECTION X.

Thou attribute divine! thou ray of God!Immortal reason! come, and with thee bring,In thy exulting train, invincible,The honest purpose, and the chearful heart;The joyful fancy, fill'd with imagesOf truth, of science, and of social love.There is no ground for fear, while we are good:Nature's the nurse, and providence the guide.
§. 1.391 Having lost Maria, as related in the ninth section, I went up to London, and on my way to the metropopolis, dined at a pleasant village, not far from Nottingham, where I saw two gentlemen well worth mentioning. They were sitting in a room the waiter shewed me into, and had each of them a porringer of mutton broth. One of them seemed a little consumptive creature, about four feet six inches high, uncommonly thin, or rather exsiccated to a cuticle. His broth and bread however he supped up with some relish. He seemed to be past threescore. His name was Ribble.The other was a young man, once very handsome, tall and strong, but so consumed[Page 335]
and weak, that he could hardly speak or stir. His name was Richmond. He attempted to get down his broth, but not above a spoonful or two could he swallow. He appeared to me to be a dying man.While I beheld things with astonishment, the servant brought in dinner, a pound of rump stakes, and a quart of green peas; two cuts of bread, a tankard of strong beer, and a pint of port wine: with a fine appetite, I soon dispatched my mess, and over my wine, to help digestion, began to sing the following lines:-
I.

   Tell me, I charge you, O ye sylvan swains,Who range the mazy grove, or flow'ry plains,Beside what fountain, in what breezy bower,Reclines my charmer in the noon-tide hour?II.

   Soft, I adjure you, by the skipping fawns,By the fleet roes, that bound along the lawns;Soft tread, ye virgin daughters of the grove,Nor with your dances wake my sleeping love.III.

   Come, Rosalind, O come, and infant flow'rsShall bloom and smile, and form their charms by yours;[Page 336]

By you the lilly shall her white compose,Your blush shall add new blushes to the rose.IV.

   Hark! from yon bow'rs what airs soft warbled play!My soul takes wing to meet th' inchanting lay.Silence, ye nightingales! attend the voice!While thus it warbles, all your songs are noise.V.

   See! from the bower a form majestic moves,And smoothly gliding, shines along the groves;Say, comes a goddess from the golden spheres?A goddess comes, or Rosalind appears.While I was singing these lines, and all the while I was at dinner, the gentlemen looked with wonder at me, and at last, as soon as I was silent, old Ribble expressed himself in the following words. -You are the most fortunate of mortals to be sure, Sir. A happy man indeed. You seem to have health and peace, contentment and tranquillity, in perfection. You are the more striking, when such spectacles as my cousin Richmond (pointing to the dying gentleman in the room) and I are in contrast before you. I will tell you our stories, Sir, in return[Page 337]
for your charming song, and hope what I am going to say may be of service to you, as you are coming on, and we going off from this world.392 My kinsman there, the dying Richmond, in that chair, was once a Sampson, and the handsomest man of his time, though the remains of beauty or strength cannot now be traced. By drinking and whoring he brought himself to what you see; to a state that eludes all the arts of medicine. He has an aggravated cough, which produces a filthy pus of an ash-colour, streaked with blood, and mixed with filaments torn from his lungs and membranes, and with the utmost difficulty he respires. He has a perpetual violent pain in his breast, a pricking soreness in his paps when he coughs, and defects in in all his functions. He has that flux of the belly, which is called a lientery, and the fluids of his body are wasted in colliquative sweats. A stretching pain racks him if he lies on either side, by reason of some adhesion of the lungs to the pleura. His hair is fallen off, and his nails you see are dead-coloured, and hooked. His countenance, you observe, is Hippocratical, the very image of death: his face a dead pale, his eyes sunk, his nose sharp, his cheeks hollow, his temples fallen, and his whole body thin like a skeleton. What a figure now is this[Page 338]
once curled darling of the ladies: It was done, good Sir, by the hand of Intemperance.§. 3.393 As to myself, (Ribble continued,) I brought a consumption into the world with me, and by art have supported under it. I was born with the sharp shoulders you see, which are called pterogoides, or wing-like, and had a contracted thorax, and long chest, a thin and long neck, a flaccid tone of all the parts about the breast, and a very flabby contexture of the muscles all over my body: but nevertheless, by a strict temperance all my life, and by following the directions of Dr. Bennet in his Theatrum tabidorum, I have not only made life tolerable, but so removed the burden of stagnant phlegm from the thorax, by throwing it down by stool, and up by expectoration,-exhaling it sometimes through the skin, and at other times digesting it with fasting, that I contrive more useful hours to myself than the strong and young can enjoy in their continued scenes of dissipation and riot. In me is seen the wonderful effect of rule and sobriety. I am now past fifty several years, notwithstanding my very weak and miserable constitution, and by attending to nature, and never indulging in gratification or excess, am not only able to live without pain, but to divert life by experimental philosophy. (Ribble went on) I[Page 339]
came down to this pleasant place, chiefly for the benefit of poor Richmond, my kinsman, (whom you see with his eyes shut before you, the very picture of death,) and also, with a view to do some good to myself, as it is the finest air in the world. I took a house in the village to live the more easily, as the lodging-houses are all crowded here, and resolved to amuse the days I have left in cultivating the science of chemistry; not in order to finish what nature has begun, do you see me, (as the alchymists talk,) and procure to the imperfect metals the much desired coction; but, to examine substances, and by the examination, obtain ideas of the bodies capable of the three degrees of fermentation, spiritous, acetous, and putrid; and of the products of those fermentations, to wit, ardent spirits, acids analogous to those of vegetables and animals, and volatile alkalis.To this purpose, I made for myself a laboratory, and about a year ago, began to employ my vessels and furnaces in various processes. A vast variety of entertaining things have since occurred, and my life is thereby made agreeable and pleasing; though to look at my poor frame, one would think me incapable of any satisfactions. I will give you an instance or two of my amusements, and do you judge, if they may not afford a mind more delight, than the tumultuous[Page 340]
joys of love and wine, horse-racing, cock-fighting, hunting, and other violent pleasures can yield.§. 4.394 You know, good Sir, I suppose, that there are six metals, two perfect, and four imperfect. Gold and silver, perfect: the others, copper, tin, lead, and iron. Quick-silver is by some called a seventh metal: but that I think cannot be, as it is not malleable. Yet it is not to be confounded with the semi-metals, as it differs from the metals no otherwise than by being constantly in fusion; which is occasioned by its aptness to flow with such a small degree of heat, that be there ever so little warmth on earth, there is still more than enough to keep mercury in fusion. It must be called then, in my opinion, a metallic body of a particular kind: And the more so, let me add, as art has not yet found out a way of depriving it wholly of its Phlogiston.395 I must observe to you, good Sir, in order to be intelligible in what I am saying, that the Phlogiston in metals is the matter of fire as a constituent principle in bodies. It is the element of fire combined with some other substance, which serves it as a basis for constituting a kind of secondary principle; and it differs from pure fixed fire in these particulars, that it communicates neither heat nor[Page 341]
light,-it causes no change, but only renders body apt to fuse by the force of a culinary fire,-and it can be conveyed from body to body, with this circumstance, that the body deprived of the phlogiston is greatly altered, as is the body that receives it.396 And as to the semi-metals, (which I mentioned) you will be pleased to observe, that they are regulus of antimony, bismuth, zinc, and regulus of arsenic. They are not malleable, and easily part with their phlogiston. Zinc and bismuth are free from the poisonous quality: but arsenic is the most violent poison; especially the shining crystalline calx of it, or flowers raised by the fire, and named white arsenic: and regulus of antimony is likewise a poison; not in its nature, but because it always contains a portion of arsenic in its composition.397 Antimony is of a pretty white bright colour, and has the splendor, opacity, and gravity of a metal, but under the hammer crumbles to dust. A moderate heat makes it flow, and a violent fire dissipates it into smoke and white vapors. They adhere to cold bodies, and when the farina is collected, we call these vapors flowers of antimony.398 Butter of antimony, good Sir, that wonderful corrosive, is a compound made by distilling pulverized regulus of antimony, and corrosive sublimate. The production, on operation, is a white matter, thick and scarce[Page 342]
fluid, which is the regulus of antimony united with the acid of sea-salt. Here the corrosive sublimate is decompounded, the mercury revivified, and the acid combined with it, quits it to join the regulus of antimony, because its affinity with it is greater.(Little Ribble, the Chemist, went on, and with difficulty I could refrain from laughing; not on account of the man's talking nonsense, for his discourse was the very reverse of that; but by reason of the gripe he had of my arm, the pulls he gave me, if I happened to look another way, and the surprising eagerness with which he spoke; which shewed, that he was chemically struck to an amazing degree.)399 But liver of antimony, good Sir, is made of equal parts of nitre and antimony. On the mixture's being exposed to the action of fire, a violent detonation ensues, and the deflagrating nitre consumes the sulphur of the antimony, and even a part of its phlogiston. A greyish matter remains after the detonation, and this is what we call liver of antimony. It contains a fixed nitre, a vitriolated tartar, and the reguline part of antimony vitrified.400 The principal use the Chemists make of antimony is to separate gold from the other metals. All metals, gold excepted, have a greater affinity with sulphur than the reguline[Page 343]
part of antimony. As to gold, it is incapable of contracting any union with sulphur. If therefore I have a mass compounded of various metals, and want to get the gold out, I melt it with antimony, and as soon as it flows, every thing in the mass which is not gold, unites with the sulphur, in or of the antimony, and causes two separations, that of the sulphur of antimony from its reguline part, and that of the gold from the metals with which it was mixed: This produces two new combinations. The metals and the sulphur, in fusion, being lighter, rise to the surface; and the gold and the reguline part of antimony being heaviest, the combination of them sinks to the bottom. Now the business is to part these two, and to this purpose, I expose the combination to a degree of fire, capable of dissipating into vapors all the semi-metal the mass contains. The reguline being volatile, goes off by the great heat, and my gold remains pure and fixed in my crucible.401 As to the antimonial wine, made by the essence of antimony, that is, by impregnating the most generous white wine, with the minims or lests of antimony, which the physicians have found out, it is not the part of a chemist to speak of that; and therefore, I shall only observe to you, that it is the best vomit, the best purge, and the best thing for[Page 344]
a sweat, in the world. I will tell you, good Sir, what I heard an eminent Doctor say of it. -Affirmo sanctissime, nihil inde melius, nihil tutius, nihil efficacius, deprehendi unquam, quam tritum illum, ac simplicem vini automonialis infusum ex vino albo generoso, aromate aliquo stomachico adjecto. Epotus largiter maximas movit vomitiones, in minuta tantùm quantitate, ad guttas puta viginta, aut triginta, adhibitus sudores elicit benignos; paulo tamen majoræ aleum solvit leniter. Medicamentum, paratu quidem facillimum, at viribus maximum. -And therefore, good Sir, when any thing ails you, let me recommend the antimonial wine to you. Thirty drops will sweat you effectually. About forty or fifty purges in a happy manner.402 But as to the second semi-metal, bismuth, it has almost the same appearance as regulus of antimony, but of a more dusky cast, inclining somewhat to red. It requires less heat than antimony to flow, and like it, and the other semi-metals, is volatile, by the action of a violent fire, and under the hammer is dust. In fusion, it mixes well with all metals, and whitens them by union, but destroys their malleability. In flowing, it loses its phlogiston with its metallic form. And it has a singular property, which the other semi-metals have not, of attenuating lead so as to make[Page 345]
it amalgamatic with mercury, so perfectly as to make it pass with it through shamoy leather. As soon as the amalgama is made, the bismuth goes off or separates; but the lead for ever remains united with the mercury.403 It is of a solution of the ore of bismuth, we make that very curious and useful thing, called sympathetic ink, which is a liquor of a beautiful colour, like that of the lilach or pipe-tree blossom. The process in preparing this liquor is tedious and difficult by aqua fortis, aqua regis, and fire, and therefore the ink is rarely to be met with. It is not to be had, unless some gentleman who makes chemistry his employment, gives one a present of a bottle of it; as I do now to you, in hopes it may some time or other be of singular service to you; for I have conceived a great regard for you, tho' I never saw you before, as you seem not only more teachable than any I have met with, but to delight in the information I give you relating to chemical things.Here I returned my Chemist many thanks, and professed my eternal obligation to him: that I could listen for years to him; and wished it was possible to become his disciple, that I might see him by experiment facilitate the study of a science, more entertaining, instructive, and extensively useful than any other. But how, dear Sir, am I to use this ink, you are so vastly good as to give me,[Page 346]
to make it more useful than any other ink could be?I will tell you (Ribble replied): you must write with this lilach-coloured liquor, on good well gummed paper, that does not sink; and the singularity of the ink, consists in its property of disappearing entirely, and becoming invisible, though it be not touched with any thing whatever: And this distinguishes it from all others. The writing must dry in a warm air, and while it is cold no colour can be perceived: but gently warming it before the fire, the writing gradually acquires a greenish blue colour, which is visible as long as the paper continues a little warm, and disappears entirely when it cools. When other sympathetic inks are made to appear by proper application, they do not disappear again; but this liquor from the ore of bismuth must have the fire or heat kept to it, to render it legible. If a man writes to his mistress, suppose, or to a minister of state, with lemon juice, once the writing has been warmed by the fire, and the letters by that means appear, the epistle may be afterwards read at any time and place; but if the lady's father should by accident get your letter, written in lilach-coloured liquor, it must still remain a secret to him: For if on getting it, and opening the seal, he could see no writing, and therefore imagining it was writ with lemon juice, or[Page 347]
some other sympathetic ink, he should hold it himself to the fire, or bid his servant hold it to the heat, that the letters might be produced, and made visible, yet the moment bismuth-ink is taken away from the fire, and begins to cool, it is as invisible again, as a sheet of white paper. How serviceable this may be on various occasions, may be easily conceived.404 But as to our third semi-metal, called Zinc, this is so like bismuth to appearance, that some have confounded it with Zinc; though it differs from it essentially in its properties, and will unite with all metalline substances, except bismuth. It is volatile by fire above all things, and makes a sublimate of the metallic substances with which it is fused. Zinc mixed with copper in the quantity of a fourth part, produces brass. If the Zinc is not very pure, the composition proves tombac, or Prince's metal.405 Regulus of arsenic, the fourth semi-metal, has a colour resembling lead, unites readily with metallic substances, and renders them brittle, unmalleable, and volatile. The calx of it produced by fire, may be made volatile by more fire, and in this differs from the calx of all metalline substances; for all other calx's are fixed, and cannot be moved. It has likewise a saline character, in which its corrosive quality or poison consists: a quality from[Page 348]
which the other metallic substances are free, when they are not combined with a saline matter. These things being noticed, in relation to metals, and semi-metals in general, I will now proceed to relate a few curious cases, in respect of the metals.406 Gold, our first metal, has ten sensible criterions. It is the heaviest and densest of all bodies: the most simple of all bodies: the most fixed of all bodies: the only body that cannot be turned into scoriæ, by antimony and lead; the most ductile of all bodies: so soft as to be scarcely elastic or sonorous: must be red hot to melt: is dissolvable by sea-salt and its preparations, but remains untouched by any other species of salts; and of consequence not liable to rust; as aqua regia and spirit of sea-salt do not float in the air, unless in laboratories, or chemists shops, where we find them sometimes: It unites spontaneously with pure quick-silver: It never wastes by emitting effluvia, or exhalations. These are the ten sensible properties or characteristics of this metal. It is certainly pure gold, if it has these criterions, and they are of great use in life; especially to persons who have to do with that subtil tribe, the alchemists.As to the weight of gold, it is more than nineteen times heavier than water, bulk for bulk, and this property is inseparable from it; it being impossible to render gold more[Page 349]
or less heavy; and for this reason, the specific gravity of gold, if it had no other criterion, might demonstrate real gold. To make gold, other metals must be rendered equiponderant to it: And therefore, if an alchemist should offer to obtrude a metal on you for gold, hang an equal weight of pure, and of suspected gold by two threads to a nice ballance, and on immerging them in water, if the alchemist's gold be pure, the water will retain both pieces in æquilibrio; otherwise, the adulterate metal will rise, and the pure descend.The reason is, all bodies lose some of their weight in a fluid, and the weight which a body loses in a fluid, is to its whole weight, as the specific gravity of the fluid is to that of the body. The specific gravity of a body is the weight of it, when the bulk is given; 38 grains of gold weighed in the air, is not the true weight of it: for there it loses the weight of an equal bulk of air: It weighs only 36 grains in the water, and there it loses the weight of as much water, as is equal in bulk to itself, that is, 2 grains, and as the gold weighs 38 grains, it follows, that the weight of water is to that of gold, bulk for bulk, as 2 to 38, that is, as the weight lost in the fluid is to the whole weight.And so, if a piece of gold, and a piece of copper, are equiponderant in air, yet in water the gold will outweigh the copper; because[Page 350]
their bulks, tho' of equal weight, are inversely as their specific gravities, that is, the gold must be as much less than the copper, as the specific gravity of gold is greater than that of copper: And as they must both lose weight in proportion to bulk in water, therefore the gold, the lesser of the two, loses less of its weight than the copper does, and consequently, out-weighs the copper in water. I hope this is clear. The case is the same, in proportion, in pure gold, and gold mixed with other metals. The bulk of the pure gold must be less than that of allayed gold, and its weight greater in water; tho' both equiponderate (a pound suppose) in air.It is very plain, Sir, and I request you will proceed. You give me valuable information, and oblige me very much. This pleased the Chemist, and the ingenious little Ribble went on.As to the simplicity of gold, we mean, by a simple body, that whose minutest part has all the physical properties of the whole mass. Now dissolve a grain of gold in aqua regia, and from a single drop of the solution, a particle of gold may be separated, and have all the characters of gold, (except those of magnitude,) though the separated particle of gold shall only be the millionth part of the grain. -Or, fuse a single grain of gold with a mass of silver, and mix the whole together, so that[Page 351]
the gold shall be equally distributed: then take a particle thereof, and you will have a particle of perfect gold; for dissolve the least part of the mixture in aqua fortis, and a quantity of gold will precipitate to the bottom. It will bear the same proportion to the grain, that the part dissolved did to the whole mass.Having mentioned aqua regia and aqua fortis, I must, to be intelligible, say two or three words in relation to them. Aqua regia is an extract by fire from sea-salt and spirit of nitre. The acid liquor that comes over from them into the receiver, is aqua regis. -Aqua fortis, or spirit of nitre, is a nitrous acid separated from its basis, nitre, by the vitriolic acid. Aqua regis only will dissolve gold. Silver is not soluble by aqua regis; its proper solvent is the acid of nitre or aqua fortis. -But if you want to separate a mass of gold and silver, either will do. You may dissolve the gold by aqua regia, and let the silver remain pure: or, dissolve the silver by aqua fortis, and let the gold remain pure. Only note in this case of a mixed lump of gold and silver, the operation by aqua fortis is preferable, for this reason; that aqua regis in dissolving the gold, takes up likewise a little silver; but aqua fortis hath not the least effect on gold: -And note further, that if there be equal parts of gold and silver in the mixture, they cannot be[Page 352]
parted by aqua fortis. It has not then the least effect on the silver, which is very strange. To make aqua fortis act duly on silver mixed with gold, the silver must be at least in a triple proportion to that of the gold. The reason of the singular effect is, that when the gold exceeds, or the parts of both are equal in quantity, then, as both are intimate, united in the mass, the parts or minims of the gold coat over the parts of the silver, and defend them from the action of the aqua fortis. In this case, aqua regia must be used to dissolve the gold, and leave the silver pure: or, as aqua regia takes up a little of the silver, when it dissolves the gold, melt the metalline mass, and add as much silver, as will make it a triple proportion to the gold. Then you may by aqua fortis take up all your silver in the dissolution, and leave all the gold pure.But as to the third criterion of gold, its being the most fixed of all bodies, this is evident from the violence of fire having no effect on it. An ounce of it exposed for the space of two months, in the eye of a glass furnace, does not lose half a grain. It may from thence be said to be incorruptible.As to gold's resisting antimony, and not turning into scoriæ by its force, it is most certain from hence, that if you take a mass consisting of gold, silver, copper, the other metals, with stones, &c. and fuse it with antimony, the[Page 353]
bodies will flow on the surface, and be easily blown off by the bellows: the antimony all evaporates, and leaves the gold alone. This is called the last test of gold, to try the purity of it. If the remaining gold have lost nothing of its weight, it is allowed perfectly pure, and called gold of twenty-four carats; or if it be found 1/24 lighter, it is said to be twenty-three carats fine.407 But as to the ductility of gold, this is the most extraordinary property of it. The arts of gold-beating and wire-drawing, shew us things quite amazing. In leaf-gold, a grain and a quarter of the metal, may be made to cover an area of fifty square inches; and if the leaf be divided by parallel lines 1/100 part of an inch, a grain of gold will be divided into five hundred thousand minute squares, all discernible by the eye: yet this is not the most can be done by the hammer. A single grain of gold may be stretched into a leaf that will cover a house, and yet the leaf remain so compact, as not to transmit the rays of light, nor ever admit spirit of wine to transude. This however is nothing to the effects of wire-drawing.A gold wire is only a silver one gilt, and if you coat a silver cylinder of forty-eight ounces weight, with one ounce of gold, which is sufficient, this cylinder may be drawn out into a wire so very fine, that two yards thereof[Page 354]
shall weigh only one grain, and 98 yards only 49 grains, so that one grain of gold gilds 98 yards; and of course the ten thousandth part of a grain, is above one third part of an inch long. And since the third part of an inch is yet capable of being divided into ten lesser parts visible to the eye, it is evident that the hundred thousandth part of a grain of gold, may be seen without the help of a microscope: And yet so intimately do its parts cohere, that though the gold wherewith the wire is coated, be stretched to such a degree, there is not any appearance of the colour of silver underneath. Nor is this all.In supergildings, that is, to make the richest lace, they employ but 6 ounces of gold, to cover or gild 45 marks of silver, that is, twenty-two pounds and a half avordupoise weight, rounded into the form of a cylinder or roller, which hath fifteen lines in diameter, and twenty-two inches in length; and here the stratum of gold which invelopes the ingot that is to be drawn into wire, hath no more thickness than the fifteenth part of a line, which is extremely thin; as a line is the twelfth part of an inch.But to make the common gold-thread, they do not use more than two ounces of gold, and sometimes not more than one, to gild or cover ingot I have mentioned, and then the inveloping stratum is not more in thickness, if[Page 355]
two ounces be employed, than the 45th part of a line; and if one ounce be used, but the 90th part of a line. Two ounces of gold is generally used, in gilding or covering the ingot I have mentioned, and vastly thinner must the stratum be, when the ingot is drawn till it surpasses the fineness of a hair, and the diameter is nine thousand times smaller than what it had in the mass: By weighing out half a dram of this thread or wire, it is found by measuring the length of the half dram, that the ingot of 221/2 pounds, and 22 inches long, is changed into a length of 1163520 feet, that is, ninety-six leagues and 196 fathom; for the half dram of wire or thread measures 202 feet; by consequence, an ounce of it, 3232 feet; a mark of it, or eight ounces, 25856 feet. And yet, astonishing as this length is, for two ounces of gold to be drawn to, the gold which covers the silver never ceases to gild it. The gold still keeps pace with the wire, stretch it to what length the drawers can, through the wire-drawing irons, and holes much smaller one than another. The silver never appears.It does not however rest there. Before the thread or wire is wound on silk, and before they spin it, it must be flatted by passing it between steel wheels extremely well polished, and this flatting increases its length to more than a seventh part. One ingot, therefore,[Page 356]
of 8 marks or 221/2 pounds, and 22 inches long, by this increase of a 7th part, is brought to the length of 111 leagues, that is, about 300 English miles.But amazing as this extent is, it is not the utmost bounds to which the ductility of gold may be carried. One ounce only of gold is sometimes used to cover one ingot, and drawn to the length I have mentioned, and by the time it has passed the flatting wheels, the gold that covers the silver laminæ, must have its thickness reduced to less than the millionth part of a line; that is, a twelve millionth of an inch. This is beyond the reach of our conception. Imagination cannot plumb her line so low.But, Sir, (I said) May not the gold be divided into small grains separate one from another, but yet near enough to give their colour to the silver? Though we may not be able to see the thing, yet I think it may be imagined; the gold on the laminæ doth not form a continued leaf.Experience, good Sir, demonstrates the contrary,-that every point of silver hath its cover of gold. Put a piece of this gilt wire in aqua fortis, the silver will be dissolved, and the gold left a perfect, continuous tube. It is an amazing thing! And shews the astonishing power of the first cause! As to the reason of this ductility, and why gold in such a[Page 357]
manner adheres to silver, so as never to part from it, if the 221/2 pounds of silver gilded with one ounce of gold could be extended by art for ever, this is past our finding out. It is a secret of nature we cannot form any idea of.Calignosa nocte premit Deus.
Ribble went on. These are the things most remarkable in relation to gold; and I have only to add, that as to the manner of getting it, it is found sometimes in glebes or clods, consisting of gold alone; sometimes in a powdry form, and then called gold-dust, or sand-gold, in the sands and mud of rivers and brooks; but most commonly in whitish clods, dug out of mines of vast depth, and intermixed with silver and various fossils. This they reduce by fire to a mass of metal, and by aqua regia or aqua fortis, the gold is easily taken out of the ore.And as to gold's being so yielding and ductile by human art, it is to be observed, that in return it exerts a greater power on the human mind. Passive it is in its ductility, but more active in its influence on man. It is a greater tyrant than a slave. It drives repeated millions of the human race to death and hell. King of metals as it is, bright and glorious to behold, and what procures innumerable blessings to mankind; yet, without the grace of God, to moderate the passion[Page 358]
for it, and to direct the mind in a true use of it, it is more dangerous to beings on a trial in a first state, than even poverty can be in this lower hemisphere. What villainies are daily committed to get it! What iniquities daily perpetrated by those who have plenty of it! Lead us not into temptation, should relate as well to too much of it, as to a total want of it; and it is well prayed,-In all time of our wealth, good Lord deliver us.408 In my opinion, neither poverty nor riches, but a middle state, is the thing we should desire. It is in this condition, we can best live soberly, or with a sound mind, and conduct ourselves as those who have an intelligent spirit to preside in body. Too much gold most commonly inverts this order, and produces an apostasy that sets the inferior powers in the throne, and enslaves the mind to the body: It gives the passions the commanding influence, and makes reason receive law from appetite.If we look into the world, we find too often, in this case, that wealth is big with innumerable sins. The rich are filled with wine, wherein is excess, and shew an unbridled dissoluteness of manners. Their eyes behold strange women, and their hearts utter perverse things. Instead of regarding the common good, they commit the most extravagant[Page 359]
injuries. Of such a hardning nature is too much gold, that it tends to make conscience insensible and stupid, and renders it for ever unapt for impression. Then whoredom and wine, and new wine, take away the heart, and men are made to forget the law of God.But having neither poverty nor riches, in the calm middle state, having all reasonable conveniencies, we can fairly come by; a vast variety of creatures for our food, and wine in its season, to make glad the heart; we may then partake of the bounties of providence, with a sober freedom, and at the same time, can best lay up for ourselves a good foundation, or secuity for the time to come, that we may lay hold of eternal life.Tho' it is with a prospect of difficulties, that all must enter upon religion, and with labour and difficulty, maintain our ground, and acquit ourselves like christians, that is, resist the devil in all his assaults, overcome the world in its ensnaring influence, and mortify the irregular inclinations of nature; yet in the happy middle state, where there is no poverty nor riches, that is, great wealth, we can make everlasting glory and felicity our governing aim, and bound our ambition and desires by nothing short of the resurrection of the dead. We may live in a full and ready submission of the soul to the authority of[Page 360]
God's word. Things eternal may have the ascendant in our practical judgment, and then with pleasure we become followers of them, who through faith and patience inherit the promises.Good Sir, this is all our sowing time, and whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. He that soweth to his flesh, shall of his flesh reap corruption; but he that soweth to the spirit, shall of the spirit reap everlasting life. And therefore, whether your lot be cast in the happy middling state, or you were born to thousands a year, let wisdom be your rule, and prefer that happiness which has everlasting duration, in the realms of light above, to any present good that can come in competition with it. Do not spend money for that which is not bread-and your labour for that which satisfieth not. Do not employ your pains for that which hath vanity written upon it, by the word of God, by the testimony of the wisest men, and by frequent experience: but let your principal regard be for your immortal soul, when nothing can be given in exchange for the soul. Implore the light and grace of the good spirit, and by the quickening influences of the Father of the universe, and the exertion of your whole strength, let it be the principal labour of your every day, to make advances in the divine life, and be a blessing to society[Page 361]
wherever you come. In virtue and charity may you excel.You will pardon old Ribble, I hope, good Sir, and excuse his addressing himself to you in this manner. It is an odd conclusion, I own, to a discourse on metals and semi-metals; but it is from an extreme regard I have conceived for you, that I talk as I do, and presume to call upon you, (as you are a young man of fortune, I suppose) to consider seriously of that decree, which is the result of unerring wisdom, and the will of the Rector of the universe, to wit, that we are all under the law of death, and through that gate must pass, perhaps at a day's, an hour's warning, to the resurrection of the dead, to be adjudged to happiness or misery, as time has been employed, and life spent here. This is the decree of the Most High God, and of consequence, it is incumbent on us, to prepare for the awful hereafter, and endeavour by good actions, and a virtuous mind, by purity of conscience, and an exalted piety, to come off well in judgment. Happy-thrice happy they that do so.Here little Ribble the Chemist had done, and I had reason to return him my very hearty thanks for the favour of his whole discourse. I was vastly obliged to him for the knowledge he had given me, in relation to the philosophy of metals, and taking him by the hand,[Page 362]
promised him, that I would ever gratefully remember his moral conclusion. This pleased the old gentleman, and at four in the afternoon we parted.§. 3.409 Reflecting on the wonders of the metals, which I had heard old Ribble so well discourse of, and being more intent on what had been told me of these things, that I might never forget such useful learning, I trotted on for several hours without minding the road, and arrived as the sun was setting in a deep and melancholy vale, through which a pleasant river run, that by the murmur of its streams, seemed to be marked out for the rendezvous of the thoughtful, who love the deep recesses, and embowring woods, with the soft thrillings of gliding streams, as much as the sprightly court the gayest scenes. In this sweet spot, I found a pretty country house, and not knowing where I was, rid up to the door, to enquire my way. A gentleman, who seemed to be about forty, immediately appeared, let me know I was at a considerable distance from any town, and as it was near ten, told me I had best rest with him that night, and I was most heartily welcome. This was humane and civil. I accepted the kind invitation, and immediately went in with him. He brought me into a decent room, and gave me a handsome meal. We[Page 363]
had a couple of bottles after supper, talked of a thousand things, and then withdrew to wind up the machines. He would not let me stir the next morning, and after dinner we became well acquainted. Six days this gentleman prevailed with me to stay at his house, and then I left him with regret. He was so generous, so civil, and in every thing so agreeable, that I could not avoid admiring him, and regarding him to an extreme degree. His name was Monckton.§. 4.410 Avery Monckton had seen the world, when he was a young man, and by reading much, and thinking a great deal, had acquired an extensive knowledge, and a deep penetration. In him the gentleman and the scholar were visible. He seemed superior to folly, and his philosophy appeared to be an assiduous examination of his ideas, fancies, and opinions, in order to render them true and just. His religion consisted in a chearful submission to the divine pleasure, with respect to all things independent of us, or absolutely external to us; and in a continued exertion of benevolence, in doing all the good he could. What the theology of facts was, and the notions of divines, he never minded. It was his opinion, that an active charity is the only thing that can liken and approve us to the original benevolent mind:[Page 364]
and that it is reasonable to submit to all his dispensations, since the providence of an infinitely perfect Being, must do all for the best in the whole. This was Avery Monckton, Esq. In his person he was tall, and very thin.This gentleman told me the following remarkable story relating to himself, on my asking him, if he had ever been married? - Yes, Sir, he replied: When I was about five and twenty, a young lady came in my way, who had all the external charms that ever adorned a woman, and I thought her mind as perfect in goodness of every kind, as minds can be on this earth. I made my addresses to her, and with some difficulty persuaded her to accept of a good jointure, and be a wife; for she had got it into her head, that christian perfection consisted in a virgin-life. I loved her to an extreme degree, and fancied myself beyond mortals happy, as her fondness seemed equal to my passion, and she expressed it in a most transporting way. Three months passed on in this delightful manner, and I should have thought an age but minutes, if the scene was to have no change. But every thing must have an end in this poor state. Business called me one morning early into the city, and till it was late at night, I thought not to return: Back however I was compelled to[Page 365]
go for some papers, I had forgot, and designing to surprize agreeably my wife, came in by a key I had, at the wash-house door, and unseen went softly up to my chamber, where I expected to find my beloved in a sweet sleep. Gently I touched the lock, and intended, as my charmer slumbered, to give this idol of my heart a kiss: But, as I opened the door without being heard, I saw a man by my bed-side, and my fond faithful wife, buttoning up his breeches. Amazement seized me, but I was not in a rage. I only said, is that Louisa I see, and shut the door. Down stairs I went immediately, and out again the same way I came in. I was done with love for ever, and from that time never saw my wife more. A ship being to sail the next day for Constantinople, I went a passenger in it, and resolved to live abroad some years.Six years I resided in Greece, and visited every curious place: Four I spent in Asia minor, and two in Italy and France. I diverted myself with noting down the extraordinary things I saw, and I purchased several fine antiquities by the way. When done, I came back to my country again, and this little seat I now live at, being to be sold, I bought it immediately, and have resided here ever since. My study, my garden, and my horse, divert me fully and finely every day.[Page 366]
I have all I desire in this world, and reign more happily over my few subjects, in this airy, silent, secret spot, than the greatest monarch can do on a throne. My people are only one young man, who is my gardener, my footman, and my groom, and two old women, my maids. These are ever attentive to my will, and by their good behaviour and management, make my lodge as agreeable, and life as pleasing, as can be expected in this system of things.Monckton's story pleased me much, and I wondered greatly at his happy temper, when he saw his beloved wife buttoning up the breeches of the man. But did you ever hear what became of her after? -And faulty as she was, may there not be found an honest charming woman, to render your hours more delightful than study and contrivance can make them, without a soft partner thro' life? Come into the world with me, Sir, and I will engage to find out for you a mere primitive christian of a woman, with all the beauties of body that Lucian gives his images.You are very good, Sir, (Monckton replied) in offering to look out for another wife for me, and I thank you very heartily, for your well-meant kindness; but as I never enquired what became of my first wife, from the morning I left her, and know only that she is dead,[Page 367]
as her jointure has not been demanded for several years past; so shall I never be concerned with a second. Perhaps there are some honest women in the world. I hope so: but I have had enough of marriage. Beside, I think it time now to turn my thoughts a better way. In the forty-fifth year of my age, it cannot be weak, to begin to consider the great change before me, and fix my hopes on a good remove into some better and happier region. If I was unfortunate with a wife when a young man, I have little reason to expect better days with one, as age comes on. I might find myself again most sadly mistaken. But there can be no disappointment in making it the principal work of life, to prepare, in such a retirement as this, for that approaching hour, when we must submit to the power and tyranny of death and corruption. By this means, the greatest happiness may be secured. In every thing else, there is uncertainty and vanity. I speak principally in respect of my time of life, who am hastning fast to fifty: but at every time, it is my opinion, that men, as rationals, and beings who take on themselves the honourable profession of the christian religion, should not comply with the criminal liberties allowed in the world, and give into the illicit usages and customs of place and company, for fear of ridicule, or to avoid giving offence; but keep[Page 368]
strictly to the will and laws of their higher country, and in all things have a special regard to holiness, and truth, and purity.I do not say this by way of preaching, but that you may thereby have a truer idea of the man you chanced to find in a lone house on this vast common. Seven years have I now lived here, and in all that time, have not been once in London: but sometimes I ride to a neighbouring village, and if on the road, or at an inn, I can pick up a sensible agreeable man, I love to dine with him, and drink a pint of wine. Such a man I frequently ride in quest of, and if he be intirely to my mind, (which is very rarely the case,) I invite him home with me, to pass at my lodge two or three days. Far then am I from being unsocial, though I live in solitude; but I left the world, because I was ill-used in it, and happen to think very differently from the generality of men. Here Monckton ended his story, and a little after we parted.§. 5.411 I rid for six hours without meeting with any thing remarkable; but as I baited about three o'clock at a lone inn, the situation of which was so fine in forest and water, that I determined to go no further that day, there arrived a little after, a young lady, her maid, and two men servants. They were all well-mounted, and the lady's beast in particular,[Page 369]
as great a beauty of its kind, as its mistress was among women. I thought I had seen the face before, and had been some where or other in her company; but as it must be several years ago, and her face and person were a little altered, I could not immediately recollect her: but Finn, my lad, coming up to me, asked me, if I did not remember Miss Turner of Skelsmore-vale * 412 ? Miss Turner, I said;-to be sure, now I think, it is she; but this lady just arrived here is much fatter, and, if it be possible, something handsomer. It is her, believe me, quoth Finn, and you ought to wait upon her instantly. I went. It was Miss Turner, one of the beauties that adorns a gallery of pictures in the North, and who is with great truth in the following lines described, in a Poem written on this collection of paintings.
413   But see! Emilia rises to the sightIn every virtue, in every beauty bright!See those victorious eyes, that heav'nly mien!Behold her shine like Love's resistless Queen!Thou fairest wonder of thy fairest kind!By heav'n some image of itself design'd!As if in thee it took peculiar care,And form'd thee like some fav'rite seraph there.But tho' thy beauty strikes the ravish'd sight,Thy virtue shines distinguishingly bright!And all the graces of thy form combin'd,Yield to the charms of thy unblemish'd mind;[Page 370]

Where all is spotless, gentle, and serene,One calm of life untouch'd by guilt or pain!Could I in equal lays thy worth design,Or paint exalted merit such as thine!To latest ages should thy name survive,And in my verse Emilia ever live;Th' admiring world should listen to thy praise,And the fair portrait charm succeeding days.
This lady knew me at once, on my entring the room where she was, and we dined together. She told me, her brother, my friend, died in Italy, on his return home; and Miss Jaquelot, her cousin and companion, was happily married; and that being thus left alone, by these two accidents, she was going up to London, to reside in the world.§. 6.414 Miss Turner, (I said then) as you are now your own mistress, I may with justice make my addresses, and tell you, that from the first hour I saw you, I was in love with you, and am so still: that if you will do me the honour to be my wife, I will make the best of husbands. I have now some fortune, and if you will allow, that an honest man is the best companion for an honest woman, let us marry in the country, and instead of going up to that noisy tumultuous place called London, retire to some still delightful retreat, and there live, content with each other, as happy as it is possible for two young mortals to be in this lower hemisphere. What do you say, Miss Turner?
[Page 371]

§. 7.415 You shall have my answer, Sir, in a few days: But as to going up to London, I think I had best see it, since I am come so far. It may give me a new relish for still life, and make the country seem more charming than I thought it before. On the other hand, it may perhaps make me in love with the town, and put me out of conceit with the country. In short, on second thoughts, I will not go up to the Capital. I will return to Skelsmore-vale. I think so now: But how I may think in the morning, at present I do not know. In the mean time, (Cæsia continued,) ring, if you please, for a pack of cards, and let us pass the evening in play. The cards were brought in, the game began, and before we had played many hours, I saw this dear charming creature was all my own. She sat before me, like blushing beauty in the picture, (in the gallery of Venus,) enriched with thought, warm with desire, and with delicate sensations covered over: I could not help wishing for father Fleming, my friend, to qualify us for the implanted impulse, and sanctify the call. Early the next morning I sent Finn for him, and he was with me in a few days. The evening he arrived we were married. Man and wife we sat down to supper.§. 8.416 Here the morose, the visionary, and the dunce, will again fall upon me, for marrying[Page 372]
a fifth wife, so quickly after the decease of the fourth; who had not been three months in her grave: But my answer is, that a dead woman is no wife, and marriage is ever glorious. It is the institution of heaven, a blessing to society, and therefore hated by the devil and mass-priests. Satan by opposing it, promotes fornication and perdition. The priests by preaching against it, drive the human race into cloysters; destroy every thing gentle, generous, and social; and rob the people of their property. Celibacy is popery and hell in perfection. It is the doctrine of devils, and a war with the Almighty. It is against the institutions of nature and providence; and therefore, for ever execrable be the memory of the mass-priests, who dare to call it perfection.My dear Reader, if you are unmarried, and healthy, get a wife as soon as possible, some charming girl, or pretty widow, adorned with modesty, robed with meekness, and who has the grace to attract the soul, and heighten every joy continually;-take her to thy breast, and bravely, in holy wedlock, propagate. Despise and hiss the mass-priests, and every visionary, who preaches the contrary doctrine. They are foes to heaven and mankind, and ought to be drummed out of society.
[Page 373]

SECTION XI.


   Quid quæri, Labiene, jubes?-An noceat vis ulla bono? Summaque perdatOpposita virtute minas? Laudandaque velleSit satis, et nunquam successu crescat honestum?Scimus, et hoc nobis non altius inferet Ammon.
Cato's answer to Labienus, when he requested him to consult the oracle of Jupiter Ammon. Lucan, B. 9.



   Where would thy fond, thy vain enquiry go?What mystic fate, what secret would'st thou know?If this sad world, with all its forces join'd,The universal malice of mankind,Can shake or hurt the brave and honest mind?If stable virtue can her ground maintain,While fortune feebly threats and frowns in vain?If truth and justice with uprightness dwell,And honesty consist in meaning well?If right be independent of success,And conquest cannot make it more nor less?Are these, my friend, the secrets thou would'st know,Those doubts for which to oracles we go?'Tis known, 'tis plain, 'tis all already told,And horned Ammon can no more unfold.
Rowe.
Or thus.


   What should I ASK, my friend,-if best it beTo live enslav'd, or thus in arms die free!If it our real happiness import,Whether life's foolish scene be long or short?If any force true honour can abate,Or fortune's threats make virtue bow to fate?[Page 374]

If when at noble ends we justly aim,The bare attempt entitles us to fame?If a bad cause, that justice would oppress,Can ever grow more honest by success?All this we know, wove in our minds it sticks,Which Ammon nor his priests can deeper fix.They need not teach with venal cant and pains,That God's inevitable will holds our's in chains,Who act but only what he pre-ordains.He needs no voice to thunder out his law,Or keep his creatures wild desires in awe:Both what we ought to do, or what forbear,He once for all did at our births declare:What for our knowledge needful was or fit,With lasting characters in human soul he writ.But never did he seek out desert landsTo skulk, or bury truth in desert sands,Or to a corner of the world withdrew,Head of a sect, and partial to a few.Nature's vast fabrick he controuls alone;This globe's his footstool, high heaven his throne.   Estque Dei sedes, ubi terra, et pontus, et aer,   Et cælum, et virtus. Superos quid quærimus ultra?In earth, sea, air, and what e'er else excels,In knowing heads, and honest hearts he dwells.Why vainly seek we then in barren sands,In narrow shrines, and temples built with hands,Him, whose dread presence does all places fill,Or look, but in our reason for his will!Whate'er we see is God, in all we findApparent prints of his eternal mind.   Sortileges egeant dubii semperque, futuris   Casibus Ancipetes: me non oracula certum,   Sed mors certa facit: pavido fortique cadendum est.   Hoc satis est dixisse Jovem. Sic illa profatur.Let floating fools their course by prophets steer,And live of future chances still in fear;No oracle or dream the crowd is told,Shall make me more or less resolv'd and bold;[Page 375]

Death is my sure retreat, which must on all,As well on cowards, as on the gallant fall.This said he turn'd him with disdain about,And left scorn'd Ammon to amuse the rout. (15) 417   Non exploratum populis Ammona relinquens.
§. 1.418 For six weeks after our marriage, we resided at the inn, on account of the charms of the ground, and seemed to be in possession of a lasting happiness it is[Page 376]
impossible for words to describe. Every thing was so smooth and so round, that we thought prosperity must be our own for many years to come, and were quite secure from the flames of destruction; but calamity laid hold of us, when we had not the least reason to expect it, and from a fulness of peace and felicity, we sunk at once into an abyss of afflictions. Instead of going back to Skelsmorevale, as we had resolved, my wife would go up to London, and pass a few weeks there, and[Page 377]
thereabout, before she retired to the mountains. I was against it, but her will was my law. We set out for the Capital, and the first day's journey was delightful: But her fine beast having met with an accident in the night, by a rope in the stable, which got about it's foot, cut it deep, and rendered it unable to travel; we took a chariot and four to finish our way; but on driving by the side of a steep hill, the horses took fright, ran it down, over came the carriage, and my charmer was killed. This was a dismal scene. She lived about an hour, and repeated the following fine lines from Boissard, when she saw me weeping as I kneeled on the ground by her;-

Nil prosunt lacrumæ, nec possunt fata moveri:Nec pro me queror; hoc morte mihi est tristius ipsa,Mœror Atimeti conjugis ille mihi. (16) 419Just as she expired, she took me by the hand, and with the spirit of an old Roman, bid me adieu.
[Page 378]
Can you form an idea, Reader, of the distress I was then in? It is not possible I think,[Page 379]
unless you have been exactly in the same situation; unless you loved like me, and have[Page 380]
been as miserably separated from as charming a woman. But it was in vain for me to continue lamenting. She was gone for ever,[Page 381]
and lay as the clod of the valley before me. Her body I deposited in the next churchyard, and immediately after, rid as fast as I could to London, to lose thought in dissipation, and resign the better to the decree. For some days I lived at the inn I set up at, but as soon as I could, went into a lodging, and it happened to be at the house of the famous Curl the bookseller; a man well known in the Dunciad, and Pope's letters to his friends, on account of Curl's frauds in purchasing and printing stolen copies of Mr. Pope's works. It is in relation to these tricks, that Pope mentions Curl in his Dunciad and Letters. A succinct history of him I shall here give: but had I complied with his requests, it would have been a long relation, to the advantage and glory of this extraordinary man: For he came one morning into my closet, with an apron full of papers; being letters, memorandums, parodies, and notes, written by or concerning himself; and requested I would, on a good consideration, write his life, to his profit and honour, and make it a five shilling book. That I said was not then in my power to do: but I would, one time or other, give the public a true account of him,[Page 382]
and make it conclude I hoped to the glory of his character. Here it is.§. 2.420 Curl was in person very tall and thin, an ungainly, aukward, white-faced man. His eyes were a light-grey, large, projecting, gogle and pur-blind. He was splay-footed, and baker-kneed.He had a good natural understanding, and was well acquainted with more than the title pages of books. He talked well on some subjects. He was not an infidel as Mrs. Rowe misrepresents him in one of her letters to lady Hartford, (afterwards Dutchess of Somerset). He told me, it was quite evident to him, that the scriptures of the Old and New Testament contained a real revelation. There is for it a rational, a natural, a traditionary, and a supernatural testimony; which rendered it quite certain to him. He said, he no more doubted the truth of the christian religion, than he did the existence of an independent supreme Creator; but he did not believe the expositions given by the divines. So far Curl was right enough. His fault was, that with such a belief, he took no pains with his heart. Trusting intirely to the merits of the Saviour, like too many other mistaken christians, he had no notion of religion as an invisible thing within us, called the kingdom of God: He did not even consider it as a good outside thing, that[Page 383]
recommends a man to his fellow-creatures. He was a debauchee to the last degree, and so injurious to society, that by filling his translations with wretched notes, forged letters, and bad pictures, he raised the price of a four shilling book to ten. Thus, in particular, he managed Burnet's Archiology: And when I told him he was very culpable in this, and other articles he sold, his answer was, What would I have him do? He was a bookseller. His translators in pay, lay three in a bed, at the Pewter-Platter Inn in Holborn, and he and they were for ever at work, to deceive the Public. He likewise printed the lewdest things. He lost his ears for the Nun in her Smock, and another thing. As to drink, he was too fond of money, to spend any in making himself happy that way; but at another's expence, he would drink every day till he was quite blind, and as incapable of self-motion as a block. This was Edmund Curl: But he died at last as great a penitent, (I think in the year 1748) as ever expired. I mention this to his glory.As Curl knew the world well, and was acquainted with several extraordinary characters, he was of great use to me at my first coming to town, as I knew nobody, nor any place. He gave me the true characters of many I saw, told me whom I should avoid, and with whom I might be free. He brought me to the play-houses, and gave me a judicious[Page 384]
account of every actor. He understood those things well. No man could talk better on theatrical subjects. He brought me likewise to Sadler's Wells, to the night-cellars, and to Tom King's, the famous night-house at Covent Garden. As he was very knowing, and well-known at such places, he soon made me as wise as himself in these branches of learning; and, in short, in the space of a month, I was as well acquainted in London, as if I had been there for years. My kind preceptor spared no pains in lecturing.But what of all things I thought most wonderful was the company I saw at the Sieur Curl's. As he was intimate with all the high whores in town, many of them frequented his shop, to buy his dialogues, and other lively books. Some of these girls he often asked to dine with him, and then I was sure to be a guest. Many very fine women I thereby saw, but none worth mentioning, till Carola Bennet arrived. She did surprize me. Her mind and body were very wonderful, and I imagine a description of her, and her story afterward will not be ungrateful to my readers.§. 3.421 Carola Bennet was at this time in the two and twentieth year of her age, a dazzling beauty in the height of life and vigour. Her eyes were black and amazingly fine: Her mouth charming: Her neck and breast very[Page 385]
beautiful: Her stature was just what it ought to be. She had a glow of health, a luscious air, and a bewitching vivacity: Her manners were wonderfully winning, and the tone of her voice so sweet and insinuating, that her words and looks went directly to the heart. She had read many books of gaiety, wit, and humour; especially the French; and talked delightfully on such subjects. She sang to perfection: but her conversation was too free, and she seemed to have no sense of any religion. It was a fine entertainment to be in her company, as I often was, yet I could not help sighing, to see so many perfections on the brink of everlasting destruction. -This young lady all of a sudden disappeared. Curl knew not what was become of her: but as I rid ten years after through Devonshire, in the finest part of that romantic county, I saw her one morning, (as I stopped to water my horse in a brook that ran from a park,) sitting on a seat, under a vast beautiful cedar tree, with a book in her hand. I thought I was no stranger to the fine face, and as I was pretty near to her, I called out, and asked, if she was not Miss Bennet? She knew me at once, and pointing to a gate that was only latched, desired I would come to her. I went and found she was the mistress of the fine seat at a small distance off. She brought me into the house, would not suffer me to[Page 386]
stir that day, and told me the story of her life. I think it worth placing here.§. 4.422 Carola Bennet was the daughter of John Bennet, Esq; a Yorkshire gentleman, who died when she was in her 19th year, and left her in the care of her aunt, an old lady who was outwardly all saint, and within a devil. This Carola knew well, and requested her father to get another guardian for her, or leave her to manage herself; for Mrs. Hunfleet, her aunt, was far from being that primitive christian he took her for, and so great a miser, that exclusive of all her other vices, her avarice alone was enough to ruin her niece. She would sacrifice the whole human race for half a thousand pounds. But all his daughter said was in vain. He believed his sister was godliness itself, in its utmost latitude and extent; that she lived a continued opposition to our mortal enemies, the world, sin, and the devil; and that her heart was a mere magazine of universal honesty, probity of manners, and goodness of life and conversation. Integrity and rectitude, and benevolence, as he thought, were the bright criterions of her soul. She will teach you, Carola, to fast and pray, and make you like herself, a mere saint.It was to no purpose then for the daughter to remonstrate: She could only weep, as her[Page 387]
father was positive, and after his death was obliged to go home with Mrs. Hunfleet. There, as she expected, she had too much of the outward bodily exercise of religion, every thing that can be named within the circle of external worship; such as public and private services, fastings, macerations, bowings, expanded hands and lifted eyes, which Lord Halifax (in his advice to a daughter,) calls the holy goggle: but that all this accompanied the internal acts of the old woman's mind, and went along with her heart and soul, Carola had reason to doubt. She saw it was but outward profession,-all hypocrisy, -that her life belied her creed, and her practice was a renunciation of the christian religion. This appeared to be the case very quickly. The aunt sold her to one Cantalupe for five hundred pounds. Under pretence of taking her to visit a friend, she brought her to a private bagnio, or one of those houses called convents.§. 5.423 Such houses stand in back courts, narrow lanes, or the most private places, and seem to be uninhabited, as the front windows are seldom opened, or like some little friary, where a company of visionaries reside; but within are elegantly furnished, and remarkable for the best wines. The woman who keeps the house is the only person to be[Page 388]
seen in them, unless it be sometimes, that a high-priced whore, who passes for the gentlewoman's daughter, by accident appears.In these brothels the Sieur Curl was well known, and as the wine in them is always excellent, (but a shilling a bottle dearer than at the tavern,) and one sits without hearing the least noise, or being seen by any one, I have often gone with this ingenious man to such places, on account of the purity of the wine, and the stillness of the house; as there are no waiters there, nor any well-drest hussies to come in the way. You are as silent as in a cave; nor does a woman appear, except as before excepted, unless it be by appointment at this kind of meeting-house, as such places may well be called: for there not seldom does many a married woman meet her gallant. One evening that I was there with Curl, there came in the wife of a very eminent merchant, a lady of as excellent a character as any in the world; who was never so much as suspected by any of her acquaintance, but allowed by every body to be a woman of pure morals and unspotted chastity. She came in first with a black mask on her face, from her chair, and was by the woman of the house shewn into a chamber up stairs: Half an hour after, there was another soft tap at the door, and a gentleman was let in, who was shewed up to the chamber[Page 389]
the lady was in: As the door of the room Curl and I were sitting in, happened to be open as this adventurer passed by, I knew the man. He was an Irish gentleman of large fortune, with whom I was well acquainted. He was ever engaged in amours, and was some years after this hanged at Cork, for ravishing Sally Squib, the quaker. His name then can be no secret: But as to the the lady's name, I shall never tell it, as she left several children, who are now living in reputation; but only observe, that there are, to my knowledge, many women of such strict virtue in the world. If you ask me reader, how I came to know who she was? I will tell you. As she came down stairs in a mask at ten at night, in the manner she went up, I concluded she was a married woman of distinction, and followed her chair, when it went off. She changed at Temple Bar, and then took a hackney coach, which drove beyond the Royal Exchange; I followed till it stopped at a grand house, into which she went without a mask, and had a full view of her fine face. I enquired next day who lived in the house I saw her go into, and was told it was Mr. *****, a merchant of the greatest repute. Often did I see this lady after this, was several times in her company, and if I had not known what I did, should have thought her a woman of as great virtue as ever lived. There was not the least[Page 390]
appearance of levity or indecency in her. To all outward appearance, she was chastity and discretion in flesh and blood. -But as to Carola Bennet.§. 6.424 Soon after her aunt and she arrived at Mrs. Bedewell's, in came Cantalupe as a visiter, and after tea, they went to cards. Then followed a supper, and when that was over, they gave the innocent Miss Bennet a dose, which deprived her of her senses, put her to bed, and in the morning she found herself ruined in the arms of that villain Cantalupe. Distraction almost seized her, but he would not let her stir. She called, but no one came near to her relief. He swore a million of oaths, that it was pure love made him buy her of her aunt, as he heard she was going to marry another man, and if she would but share with him in his great fortune, since the thing was done, he would, (by every sacred power he vowed) marry her that evening or the next, the first time they went out, and be the truest and most tender husband that ever yet appeared in the world. This, and the situation she was in, naked and clasped in his strong arms, without a friend to aid her, within doors or without, made her sensible her resentments were in vain, and that she had better acquiesce, and make the man her husband, if she could, since it was her[Page 391]
hard fate, and that in all probability she might conceive from the transactions of the night. This made her have done. She lay as he requested till noon, and hoped he would prove as faithful as he had solemnly swore to be.But when the night came, an indisposition he feigned, made him unable to stir out that evening, and he requested the idol of his heart, whom he loved more than life, to give him leave to defer it till the next. For six days he put it off in the same manner, during which time, they never stirred out of the bagnio, and the seventh day he left her fast asleep in bed. A billet-doux on the dressing-table informed her, that he was obliged to set out that morning for France, and as he intended to be back in a few months, he hoped she would not think him faithless at once. He left her a hundred pound bank note, which was all he had then to spare, as he had paid to her aunt 500 l. a few days before.Thus fell the beautiful Miss Bennet by the treachery of her ever-cursed aunt, and was made a whore very much against her will. The aunt, in the mean time, had shut up her house, and was gone no one knew where. She took several jewels with her, and a large sum of money, both the property of her niece. She left her but little of her fortune, and reported[Page 392]
every where, that Carola was gone into keeping with a great man, and had before been debauched by her footman. In short, all that could be done this woman did, to impoverish and defame her niece, and as she had passed upon the world for a praying virtuous old piece, her reports were thought so true, that all the female acquaintance Miss Bennet had, laughed at the story she told, and shunned her as a foul fiend. She was banished from all modest company. They considered her as the most detestable prostitute, for excusing herself (they said) by blackning the character of so pious and upright a woman as Mrs. Hunfleet, her aunt, was.§. 7.425 Thus did iniquity ruin and triumph over innocence in the mask of religion, and a thousand times, to my own knowledge, it has done the same thing. I have often known wretches pretend to seek the kingdom of God, and his righteousness, in the first place, and by believing all the monks have invented, by constantly attending public worship, and an unnatural kind of sobriety, pass for people that were ready and willing to suffer every thing the cause of God and truth can require from rationals: yet these holy mortals could make the service of God not only stand with unwilling infirmities, (the common case of the best humanity,) but consist with wilful[Page 393]
and presumptuous sinning, and a malevolence as great as the devil had against our first parents. A minister of the gospel, who passed for an admirable man, did his best to ruin my character for ever with my father. One of the holiest men in the world, cheated me of a thousand pounds, left in his hands for my use, for fear I should spend it myself. And a rich man, commonly called piety and goodness, from the seeming simplicity of his manners, the softness of his temper, and the holy goggle of his eyes in his public devotion, arrested me on a note of hand, one third of which was interest thrown into the principal, and made me pay interest upon interest, without mercy, or waiting as I intreated, till it was more convenient. Many more such praying, sanctified villains I could mention, in respect of whom Edmund Curl was a cherubim, fond as he was of a girl and a flask. Curl owned he was a sinner, and that he was led by thirst and repletion to indulge: but the hypocrites with professions of esteem for the pearl of great price, and that they have parted with their Herodias, for the sake of eternal life; yet wilfully disobey from a passion for substance; and the shrine of bright Mammon in this world, has a greater influence on their souls than all the joys of an everlasting heaven to come. What they do is a farce. Upon what they have, they rest their all.
[Page 394]
But as to Miss Bennet: In this sad condition, she secreted herself for some months from the world, and notwithstanding her constitution and taste, intended to retire among the mountains of Wales, and live upon the little she had left: but unfortunately for so good a design, the matchless Sir Frederic Dancer came in her way, and by money, and the force of love, persuaded her to be his companion while he lived, which was but for a short time. A young nobleman prevailed on her next, by high rewards, to be the delight of his life for a time; and at his death, she went to the arms of an Irish peer. She had what money she pleased from these great men, and being now very rich, she determined, on the marriage of her last Lord, to go into keeping no more, but to live a gay life among the agreeable and grand. She had lost all her notions of a weeping and gnashing of teeth to come, in the conversation of these atheistical men, and on account of her living as happily as she could in this world. What religion she had remaining, was placed in giving money to the sick and poor, which she did with a liberal hand: And her charity, in all its charms, she often shewed to the most deserving men. Those who had much of this world's goods paid dear: but she had compassion on the worthy, though they could not drive in a chariot to her door.[Page 395]
This was the case of Miss Bennet, when I saw her at Curl's.But all of sudden she disappeared, and no one could tell what was become of her: that I learned from herself, when I chanced to see her under the cedar tree, (as before related) in the park.A young clergyman, Mr. Tench, an Irishman of the county of Galway, who was very rich, and had a fine seat in Devonshire, saw her at the opera, and fell in love with her. He soon found out who she was, waited upon her, and offered to marry her, if she would reform. At first, she shewed very little inclination to a virtuous course, and, as her manner was, ridiculed the interest of another life. The blessedness of heaven she laughed at, and made a jest of riches, honours, and pleasures to be found on the other side the grave. This did not however dishearten Tench. He was a scholar and a man of sense, and as he loved most passionately, and saw she had a fine capacity, he was resolved, if possible, to reclaim her, by applying to her bright understanding.§. 8.426 He observed to her, in the first place, (as she informed me) that, exclusive of future happiness, godliness was profitable in all things, that is, even in this life, in prosperity and adversity, in plenty and in want, in peace and in war, in confusion and security,[Page 396]
in health, in honour and disgrace, in life and in death, and in what condition soever we may be. This he proved to her satisfaction, and made it plain to her conception, that by it only we can acquire a right judgment of persons and things, and have a just and due estimate of ourselves: that unless held in by reason and religion, pleasure, though innocent of itself, becomes a thing of deadly consequence to mortals; and if we do not use it in due time, place, circumstance, measure and limits, it necessarily involves us in difficulties and troubles, pain and infamy: if we stifle the grand leading principles, reason and religion, by sin and vice, and let desire and inclination range beyond bounds, we must not only plunge into various woes in this world, but as creatures degenerated below the beast, become the contempt and abhorrence of the wise and honest. To this sad condition must be annexed a reflective misery, as we have conscience or reason, that will examine, now and then, the whole procedure of life, do all we can to prevent it, and the remorse that must ensue, on account of our wretched and ridiculous conduct, is too bitter a thing for a reasonable creature to acquire, for the sake of illicit gratification only; and this becomes the more grievous in reflexion, as pleasures are not forbidden by religion, but allowed to the most upright, and ordained[Page 397]
for the holy service of God; to recruit nature, and enliven the spirits; to propagate the human species, and preserve the flame of love in the married state. If there was then no other life but this, it is most certainly our interest in regard to fame and advantage, to be governed by reason and religion.And if we are not to be annihilated with the beast, but are to answer hereafter for what we have done, whether it be good or bad, surely the main business of life should be to govern ourselves by godliness, that is, to be christians in our principles, holy in our conversation, and upright in our behaviour. If the gospel be true, (as has been proved a thousand and a thousand times, by the wisest men in the world, to the confusion and silence of infidelity,) and the Son of God came into the world, not to make Judea the seat of absolute and universal empire, and establish a temporal dominion in all possible pomp and magnificence, (as the Jews most erroneously and ridiculously fancied, and to this day believe,) but to prepare greater things for us; to relieve us from the power of sin, and the endless and unspeakable miseries of the life which is to come; to propose a prize far more worthy of our expectations than the glories of civil power, and to secure to us the happiness both of soul and body to all eternity, in the kingdom of God; then certainly, in[Page 398]
regard to ourselves, we ought to attend to his heavenly lessons, and turn from the unlawful enjoyments of this life, to the endless and solid happiness of a future state. As this is the case, we should cherish and improve a faith of invisible things, by serious and impartial consideration. We should attend to the evidence which God has given us for the truth of christianity, evidence very cogent and sufficient; and then shew our faith by works suited to the doctrine of Christ; that is, by recommending the practice of virtue, and the worship of one God, the Creator of the universe.Consider then, Miss Bennet, that you stand on the brink of death, resurrection, and judgment; and it is time to begin by serious and humble enquiry to arrive at a faith of strength and activity; that by your eminence in all virtue and holiness, you may make the glorious attempt to be greatest in the kingdom of heaven. This will be a work worthy of an immortal Soul: Nor will it hinder you from enjoying as much happiness in this lower hemisphere, as reason can desire. For godliness is profitable unto all things, having promise of the life that now is, and of that which is to come.Thus (Miss Bennet that was, continued) did this excellent young clergyman talk to me, and by argument and reasoning in the[Page 399]
gentlest manner, by good sense and good manners, made me a convert to christianity and goodness. He snatched me from the gulph of eternal perdition, and, from the realms of darkness, and the society of devils, brought me into the kingdom of the Messiah. To make me as happy as it was possible even in this world, he married me, and landed me in this charming spot you found me in. For seven years, we lived in great happiness, without ever stirring from this fine solitude, and since his death, I have had no inclination to return to the world: I have one lady for my companion, an agreeable sensible woman, a near relation of Mr. Tench's, and with her, and some good books, and three or four agreeable neighbours, have all the felicity I care for in this world. When you saw me at Curl's, I had no taste for any thing but the comedy, the opera, and a tale of La Fontaine; but you found me with a volume of Tillotson in my hand, under that aged and beautiful cedar, near the road; and in those sermons I now find more delight, in the solemn shade of one of those fine trees, than ever I enjoyed in the gayest scenes of the world. In these sweet silent walks I am really happy. Riches and honour are with me, yea durable riches and righteousness. To the blessings of time, I can here add the riches of expectation and comfort, the riches of future glory and happiness.[Page 400]
This makes me fond of this fine retreat. In contentment, peace, and comfort of mind, I now live. By hearkning to the commandments, my peace is a river.Here Mrs. Tench had done, and I was amazed beyond expression. This charming libertine was quite changed. It was formerly her wont (when I have sat an evening with her at Curl's,) to make a jest of the christian scheme,-to laugh at the devil and his flames; her life was all pleasure, and her soul all whim: but when I saw her last, she was serious, and seemed to enjoy as happy a serenity and composure of mind, as ever mortal was blessed with. Even her eyes had acquired a more sober light, and in the place of a wild and luscious air, a beautiful modesty appeared.§. 9.427 And now to what shall I ascribe this astonishing alteration? Shall I say with our methodists and other visionaries, that it must be owing to immediate impulse, and proceeded from inward impression of the Spirit? No: this will not do. It was owing to be sure, to the word (not in-spoken) but taught by Christ in his gospel. When her friend Tench opened the New Testament to her, her good understanding inclined her to hearken. She began to consider: She pondered, and had a regard to the gospel, now laid before her, by that sensible and excellent young clergyman. She[Page 401]
became a believer. And as the Apostle says, We can do all things through Christ who strengthens us; that is, says Dr. Hunt, in one of his fine sermons, through the directions of Christ, and through the arguments and motives of the christian doctrine. Well said, Hunt. It must be our own choice, to be sure, to be good and virtuous. So far as men are passive, and are acted upon, they are not agents. Without power to do good or evil, men cannot be moral or accountable beings, and be brought into judgment, or receive according to their works.Dr. Lardner, in his excellent sermon on the power and efficacy of Christ's doctrine, has a fine observation;-Would any say, that the necessity of immediate and particular influences from Christ himself, is implied in this context, where he says, that he is a vine, and his disciples branches, and that their bearing fruit depends as much upon influences from him, as the life and vigour of branches do upon the sap derived from the root of the tree? It would be easy to answer, that the argument in the text is a similitude, not literal truth. Neither is Christ literally a vine, nor are his disciples, strictly speaking, branches. Men have a reasonable, intellectual nature, above animals and vegetables. They are not governed by irresistible, and necessary, or mechanical powers. But it is sound doctrine,[Page 402]
and right principles, particularly the words of Christ, which are the words of God, that are their life, and may, and will, if attended to, powerfully enable them to promote good works, and to excell, and persevere therein.§. 10.428 But it is time to return to my own story. -While I lodged at Curl's, two Irish gentlemen came to see me, Jemmy King an attorney, and that famous master in chancery, who debauched Nelly Hayden, the beauty, and kept her several years. I knew these men were as great rakes as ever lived, and had no notion of religion; that they were devoted to pleasure, and chased away every sober thought and apprehension by company, by empty, vicious, and unmanly pleasures: The voice of the monitor was lost, in the confused noise and tumult of the passions: but I thought they had honour at the bottom, according to the common notion of it. I never imagined they were sharpers, nor knew, that being ruined in Ireland, they came over to live by a gaming table. The Doctor especially, I thought was above ever becoming that kind of man, as he had a large estate, and the best education; always kept good company; and to appearance, was as fine a gentleman as ever was seen in the world. With these two I dined, and after dinner, they brought me, as it were, out of curiosity, to a gaming table, they had[Page 403]
by accident discovered, where there was a bank kept by men of the greatest honour, who played quite fair, and by hazarding a few guineas, I might perhaps, as they did, come off with some hundreds.At entring the room, I saw about twenty well-drest men sitting round a table, on which lay a vast heap of gold. We all began to play, and for two or three hours, I did win some hundreds of pounds: the Doctor and the other cheat, his friend, seemed to lose a large sum; but before morning they won it all back from me, with a great deal more; and I not only lost what I had got then, but, excepting a few pounds, what I was worth in the world; the thousands I had gained by my several wives. I had sold their estates, and lodged the money in my banker's hands. The villains round this table got it all, and my two Irishmen were not to be seen. They disappeared, and left me madly playing away my all. I heard no more of them, till I was told several years after, that they were in the Isle of Man, among other outlawed, abandoned, wicked men; where they drank night and day, according to the custom of the place, and lived in defiance of God and man. There these two advocates of impiety dwelt for some time, and died as they had lived; enemies to all good principles, and friends to a general corruption.
[Page 404]
As to the well-drest company round the table, they went off one by one, and left me all alone to the bitter thought, which led me to what I was some hours before, by what I then found myself to be. I was almost distracted. What had I to do with play, (I said)? I wanted nothing. And now by villains, with a sett of dice that would deceive the devil, I am undone. By sharpers and false dice I have sat to be ruined. The reflexion numb'd my senses for some time: and then I started, was wild, and raved.§. 11.429 This transaction made me very thoughtful, and I sat within for several days, thinking which way to turn. Curl saw I was perplexed, and on his asking me if I had met with any misfortune, I told him the whole case; that I had but one hundred pounds left, and requested he would advise me what I had best do. To do justice to every one, Curl seemed deeply concerned, and after some silence, as we sat over a bottle at a Coffee-house, he bid me take notice of an old gentleman, who was not far from us. That is Dunk the miser, who lives in a wood about 20 miles off. He has one daughter, the finest creature in the universe, and who is to succeed to his great estate, whether he will or not; it being so settled at his marriage;[Page 405]
but he confines her so much in the country, and uses her so cruelly every way, that I believe she would run away with any honest young fellow, who could find means to address her. Know then (continued Curl) that I serve Mr. Dunk with paper, pens, ink, wax, pamphlets, and every thing he wants in my way. Once a quarter of a year, I generally go to his country-house with such things, as he is glad to see me sometimes; or if I cannot go myself, I send them by some other hand. Next week I am to forward some things to him, and if you will take them, I will write a line by you to Miss his daughter, recommend you to her for a husband, as one she may depend on for honour and truth. She knows I am her friend, and who can tell, but she may go off with you. She will have a thousand a year, when the wretch her father dies, if he should leave his personal estate another way.This thought pleased me much, and at the appointed time, away I went to Mr. Dunk's country-house with a wallet full of things, and delivered Curl's letter to Miss. As soon as she had read it, I began my address, and in the best manner I could, made her an offer of my service, to deliver her from the tyrant her father. I gave her an account of a little farm I had on the borders of Cumberland, a purchase I had made, on account[Page 406]
of the charms of the ground, and a small pretty lodge which stood in the middle of it, by a clump of old trees, near a murmuring stream; that if she pleased, I would take her to that sweet, silent spot, and enable her to live in peace; with contentment and tranquility of mind; tho' far away from the splendors and honours of the world: and considering, that a christian is not to conform to the world, or to the pomps and vanities of it; its grand customs and usages; its dress and entries; its stage representations and masquerades, as they minister to vice, and tend to debauch the manners; but are to look upon ourselves as beings of another world, and to form our minds with these spiritual principles; it follows then, I think, that a pleasing country situation for a happy pair must be grateful enough. There peace and love and modesty may be best preserved; the truth and gravity of our religion be strictly maintained; and every lawful and innocent enjoyment be for ever the delights of life. Away from the idle modes of the world; perpetual love and unmixed joys may be our portion, through the whole of our existence here; and the inward principles of the heart be ever laudable and pure. So will our happiness as mortals be stable,-subject to no mixture or change; and when called away from this lower hemisphere, have nothing to fear, as we used this[Page 407]
world, as tho' we used it not; as we knew no gratifications and liberties but what our religion allows us: as our enjoyments will be but the necessary convenience and accommodation, for passing from this world to the realms of eternal happiness: Follow me then, Miss Dunk; I will convey you to a scene of still life and felicity, great and lasting as the heart of woman can wish for.The charming Agnes seemed not a little surprized at what I had said, and after looking at me very earnestly for a minute or two, told me, she would give me an answer to Mr. Curl's letter in less than half an hour, which was all she could say at present, and with it I returned to give him an account of the reception I had. It will do, he said, after he had read the letter I brought him from Miss Dunk, but you must be my young man for a week or two more, and take some more things to the same place. He then shewed me the letter, and I read the following lines.
SIR,I am extremely obliged to you for your concern about my happiness and liberty, and will own to you, that in my dismal situation, I would take the friend you recommend, for a guide through the wilderness, If I could think his heart was as sound as his head. If[Page 408]
his intentions were as upright as his words are fluent and good, I need not be long in pondering on the scheme he proposed. -But can we believe him true, as Lucinda says in the play?


   The sunny hill, the flow'ry vale,The garden and the grove,   Have echo'd to his ardent tale,And vows of endless love.
   The conquest gain'd, he left his prize,He left her to complain,   To talk of joy with weeping eyes,And measure time by pain.
To this Curl replied in a circumstantial manner, and vouched very largely for me. I delivered his letter the next morning, when I went with some acts of parliament to old Dunk, and I found the beauty, his daughter, in a rosy bower;-Simplex munditiis, neat and clean as possible in the most genteel undress; and her person so vastly fine, her face so vastly charming; that I could not but repeat the lines of Otway,-

Man when created first wander'd up and down,Forlorn and silent as his vassal brutes;But when a heav'n-born maid, like you appear'd,Strange pleasures fill'd his soul, unloos'd his tongue,And his first talk was love.-
A deal I said upon the occasion: we became well acquainted that day, as her father had[Page 409]
got a disorder that obliged him to keep his bed, and by the time I had visited her a month longer, under various pretences of business invented by the ingenious Curl, Agnes agreed to go off with me, and commit herself intirely to my care and protection: But before I relate this transaction, I think it proper to give my readers the picture of this lady; and then an apology for her flying away with me, with whom she was but a month acquainted.430 Agnes in her person was neither tall nor thin, but almost both, young and lovely, graceful and commanding: She inspired a respect, and compelled the beholder to admire and love and reverence her. Her voice was melodious; her words quite charming; and every look and motion to her advantage. Taste was the characteristic of her understanding: Her sentiments were refined: And a sensibility appeared in every feature of her face. She could talk on various subjects, and comprehended them, which is what few speakers do: but with the finest discernment, she was timid, and so diffident of her opinion, that she often concealed the finest thoughts under a seeming simplicity of soul. This was visible to a hearer, and the decency of ignorance added a new beauty to her character. In short, possessed of excellence, she[Page 410]
appeared unconscious of it, and never discovered the least pride or precipitancy in her conversation. -Her manner was perfectly polite, and mixed with a gaiety that charmed, because it was as free from restraint as from boldness.In sum, exclusive of her fine understanding, in her dress, and in her behaviour, she was so extremely pleasing, so vastly agreeable and delightful, that she ever brought to my remembrance, when I beheld her, the Corinna described in the beautiful lines of Tibullus:

   Illam quicquid agit, quoquo vestigia flectit,Componit furtim subsequiturque decor;Seu solvit crines, fusis decet esse capillis;Seu compsit comptis est veneranda comis.Urit seu tyria voluit procedere pulla;Urit seu nivea candida veste venit.Talis in æterno felix Vertumnus OlympoMille habet ornatus, mille decenter habet.



   When love would set the gods on fire, he fliesTo light his torches at her sparkling eyes.Whate'er Corinna does, where'er she goes,The graces all her motions still compose.How her hair charms us, when it loosely falls,Comb'd back and ty'd, our veneration calls!If she comes out in scarlet, then she turnsUs all to ashes,-though in white she burns.Vertumnus so a thousand dresses wears,So in a thousand, ever grace appears.


[Page 411]
Such was the beautiful Agnes, who went off with me, and in so doing acted well and wisely, I affirm, on her taking me only for an honest man; for there is no more obedience due from a daughter to her father, when he becomes an unrelenting oppressor, than there is from a subject to an English king, when the monarch acts contrary to the constitution. Passive obedience is as much nonsense in a private family, as in the government of the prince. The parent, like the king, must be a nursing father, a rational humane sovereign, and so long all service and obedience are due. But if, like the prince, he becomes a tyrant, deprives his daughter of her natural rights and liberties; will not allow her the blessings of life, but keep her in chains and misery; self-preservation, and her just claim to the comforts of existence and a rational freedom, give her a right to change her situation, and better her condition. If she can have bread, serenity, and freedom, peace and little, with an honest man, she is just to herself in going off with such a deliverer. Reason and revelation will acquit her.Thus justly thought Miss Dunk, and therefore with me she fled at midnight. We met within half a mile of her father's house, by the side of an antient wood, and a running stream, which had a pleasing effect, as it happened to be a bright moonshine. With her[Page 412]
foot in my hand, I lifted her into her saddle, and as our horses were excellent, we rid many miles in a few hours. By eight in the morning, we were out of the reach of old Dunk, and at the sign of the Pilgrim, a lone house in Esur-vale, in Hertfordshire, we breakfasted very joyfully. The charming Agnes seemed well pleased with the expedition, and said a thousand things that rendered the journey delightful. Twelve days we travelled in a fulness of delights, happy beyond description, and the thirteenth arrived at a village not far from my little habitation. Here we designed to be married two days after, when we had rested, as there was a church and a parson in the town, and then ride on to Foley farm in Cumberland, as my small spot was called, and there sit down in peace and happiness.But the second day, instead of rising to the nuptial ceremony, to crown my life with unutterable bliss, and make me beyond all mankind happy, the lovely Agnes fell ill of a fever. A sense of weight and oppression discovered the inflammation within, and was attended with sharp and pungent pains. The blood could not pass off as it ought in the course of circulation, and the whole mass was in a violent fluctuation and motion. In a word, she died in a few days, and as she had requested, if it came to that, I laid her[Page 413]
out, and put her into the coffin myself. I kept her seven days, according to the custom of the old Romans, and then in the dress of sorrow, followed her to the grave. -Thus was my plan of happiness broken to pieces. I had given a roundness to a system of felicity, and in the place of it, saw death and horror, and disappointment before me.What to do next I could not tell. One question was, should I return to Orton-lodge, to my two young heiresses? No: they wanted two years of being at age. -Then, shall I stay at Foley-farm where I was, and turn hermit? No: I had no inclination yet to become a father of the desarts. -Will you return to London then, and see if fortune has any thing more in reserve for you? This I liked best; and after six months deliberation on the thing, I left my farm in the care of an old woman, and set out in the beginning of January.§. 13.431 It was as fine a winter's morning as I had seen, which encouraged me to venture among the Fells of Westmoreland; but at noon the weather changed, and an evening very terrible came on. A little after three, it began to blow, rain, and snow very hard, and it was not long before it was very dark. We lost the way quite, and for three hours wandered about in as dismal a night as ever[Page 414]
poor travellers had. The storm rattled: The tempest howled: We could not see the horse's heads, and were almost dead with cold. We had nothing to expect but death, as we knew not which way to turn to any house, and it was impossible to remain alive till the day appeared. It was a dismal scene. But my time was not yet come, and when we had no ground to expect deliverance, the beasts of a sudden stopt, and Soto found we were at the gate of a walled yard. There he immediately made all the noise he could, and it was not long before a servant with a lantern came. He related our case within, and had orders to admit us. He brought me into a common parlour, where there was a good fire, and I got dry things. The man brought me half a pint of hot alicant, and in about half an hour, I was alive and well again. On enquiring where I was, the footman told me, it was Doctor Stanvil's house; that his master and lady were above in the dining-room, with some company, and he had directions to light me up, when I had changed my cloaths, and was recovered. Upon this I told him I was ready, and followed him.432 On the servant's opening a door, I entred a handsome apartment, well lighted with wax, and which had a glorious fire blazing in it. The doctor received me with great politeness,[Page 415]
and said many civil things upon fortune's conducting me to his house. The conversation naturally fell upon the horrors of the night, as it still continued to rain, hail, and blow, beyond what any of the company had ever heard; and one of the ladies said, she believed the winter was always far more boisterous and cold among the Fells of Westmoreland, than in any other part of England, for which she gave several good reasons: The solemn mountains, the beautiful vallies, the falling streams, form one of the most charming countries in the world in summer-time; but in winter, it is the most dreadful spot of earth, to be sure.433 The voice of the lady who talked in this manner, I thought I was well acquainted with, but by the position of the candles, and the angle of a screen in which she sat, I could not very well see her face: Amazement however began to seize me, and as an elegant supper was soon after brought in, I had an opportunity of seeing that Miss Dunk whom I had buried, was now before my eyes, in the character of Dr. Stanvil's wife; or, at least, it was one so like her, it was not possible for me to distinguish the figures:-there was the same bright victorious eyes, and chesnut hair; the complexion like a blush, and a mouth where all the little loves for ever dwelt; there was the fugitive dimple, the inchanting[Page 416]
laugh, the rosy fingers, the fine height, and the mein more striking than Calypso's. O heavens! I said to myself, on sitting down to supper, What is this I see! But as she did not seem to to be at all affected, or shewed the least sign of her having ever seen me before that time, I remained silent, and only continued to look with admiration at her, unmindful of the many excellent things before me. -In a minute or two, however, I recovered myself. I ate my supper, and joined in the festivity of the night. We had music, and several songs. We were easy, free, and happy as well-bred people could be.434 At midnight we parted, and finding an easy-chair by the side of my bed, I threw myself into it, and began to reflect on what I had seen; Finn standing before me with his arms folded, and looking very seriously at me. This lasted for about a quarter of an hour, and then the honest fellow spoke in the following manner. -I beg leave, Sir, to imagine you are perplexing yourself about the lady of this house, whom I suppose you take for Miss Dunk, we brought from the other side of England, half a year ago, and buried in the next church-yard to Blenkern. This, if I may be so free, is likewise my opinion. I would take my oath of it in a court of justice, if there was occasion for that. However she got out of the grave, and by[Page 417]
whatever casualty she came to be Mrs. Stanvil, and mistress of this fine house; yet I could swear to her being the lady who travelled with us from the west to Cumberland. But then, it seems very wonderful and strange, that she should forget you so soon, or be able to act a part so amazing, as to seem not to have ever seen you before this night. This has astonished me, as I stood behind your chair at supper, looking full at her; and I observed she looked at me once or twice. What to say to all this, I know not; but I will make all the enquiry I can among the servants, as to the time and manner of her coming here, and let you know to-morrow, what I have been able to collect in relation to her. In the mean time, be advis'd by me, Sir, tho' I am but a poor fellow, and think no more of the matter to the loss of your night's rest. We have had a wonderful deliverance from death by getting into this house, I am sure, and we ought to lie down with thankfulness and joy, without fretting ourselves awake for a woman, or any trifling incident that could befall. Beside, she is now another man's property, however it came to pass, and it would be inconsistent with your character to think any more of her. This may be too free; but I hope, Sir, you will excuse it in a servant who has your interest and welfare at heart. -Here the sage Finn had done. He withdrew, and I went to sleep.
[Page 418]
435 Betimes the next morning, Finn was with me, and on my asking what news, he said, he had heard something from all the servants, and more particularly had got the following account from the doctor's own man:-that Dr. Stanvil had a small lodge within three miles of the house we were in, and retired there sometimes to be more alone, than he could be in the residence we were at; that this lodge was a mere repository of curiosities, in the middle of a garden full of all the herbs and plants that grew in every country of the world, and in one chamber of this house was a great number of skeletons, which the doctor had made himself; for it was his wont to procure bodies from the surrounding church-yards, by men he kept in pay for the purpose, and cut them up himself at this lodge: that some of these dead were brought to him in hampers, and some in their coffins on light railed cars, as the case required: that near six months ago, the last time the doctor was at this lodge, there was brought to him by his men the body of a young woman in her coffin, in order to a dissection as usual, and the bones being wired; but as it lay on the back, on the great table he cuts up on, and the point of his knife at the pit of the stomach, to open the breast, he perceived a kind of motion in the subject, heard a sigh[Page 419]
soon after, and looking up to the head saw the eyes open and shut again: that upon this, he laid down his knife, which had but just scratch'd the body, at the beginning of the linea alba, (as my informer called it) and helped himself to put it into a warm bed: that he took all possible pains, by administering every thing he could think useful, to restore life, and was so fortunate as to set one of the finest women in the world on her feet again. As she had no raiment but the shroud which had been on her in the coffin, he got every thing belonging to dress that a woman of distinction could have occasion for, and in a few days time, she sparkled before her preserver in the brightness of an Eastern princess: He was quite charmed with the beauties of her person, and could not enough admire her uncommon understanding: He offered to marry her, to settle largely on her, and as she was a single woman, she could not in gratitude refuse the request of so generous a benefactor: My informer further related, that they have both lived in the greatest happiness ever since; and the doctor, who is one of the best of men, is continually studying how to add to the felicities of her every day: that he offered to take her up to London to pass the winters there, but this she refused, and desired she might remain where she was in the country, as it was really most agreeable[Page 420]
to her, and as he preferred it to the town.436 This account made the thing quite plain to me. And to judge impartially, considering the whole case, I could neither blame the lovely Agnes for marrying the doctor, nor condemn her for pretending to be a stranger to me. She was fairly dead and buried, and all connexion between us was at an end of course, as there had been no marriage, nor contract of marriage. And as to reviving the affair, and renewing the tenderness which had existed, it could answer no other end than producing unhappiness, as she was then Mrs. Stanvil, in a decent and happy situation. And further, in respect of her marrying the doctor so soon after her separation from me, it was certainly the wisest thing she could do, as she had been so intirely at his disposal, was without a stitch to cover her, and I in all probability, after burying her, being gone up to London, or in some place, where she could never hear of me more; I might likewise have been married, if any thing advantageous had offered after laying her in the church-yard. And beside, she neither knew the place she fell sick in, nor the country the doctor removed her to, as soon as ever he could get any cloaths to put on her. So that, naked and friendless as she was, without any money, and ignorant of[Page 421]
what became of me; without a possibility of informing herself; I could not but acquit her. I even admired her conduct, and resolved so far to imitate her, in regard to the general happiness, that nothing should appear in my behaviour, which could incline any one to think, I had ever seen her before the night the tempest drove me to her house. I was vexed, I own, to lose her. But that could be no reason for making a senseless uproar, that could do nothing but mischief.As composed then as I could be, I went down to breakfast, on a servant's letting me know they waited for me, and found the same company, who had so lately parted to slumber, all quite alive and chearful, easy and happy as mortals could be. At the request of Dr. Stanvil, who was extremely civil, I staid with them two months, and passed the time in a delightful conversation, intermixed with music, cards, and feasting. 437 With sadness I left them all, but especially on account of parting for ever with the late Miss Dunk. It was indeed for the pleasure of looking at her, that I staid so long as I did at Dr. Stanvil's; and when it came to an eternal separation, I felt that morning of my departure, an inward distress it is impossible to give an idea of to another. It had some resemblance (I imagine) of what the visionaries call a dereliction; when they sink from[Page 422]
extasy to the black void of horror, by the strength of fancy, and the unnacountable operation of the animal spirits.438 Here, before I proceed, I think I ought to remove some objections that may be made against my relation of Mrs. Stanvil's coming to life again, and her being brought from the couch of lasting night to a bridal bed. It is not easy to believe, that after I seemed certain she was dead, and kept her the proper number of days before interment; saw her lie the cold wan subject for a considerable time, and then let down into the grave; yet from thence she should come forth, and now be the desire of a husband's eyes. This is a hard account sure. But nevertheless, it is a fact. As to my being mistaken, no less a man than Dr. Cheyne thought Colonel Townsend dead: (See his Nervous Cases:) And that several have lived for many years, after they had been laid in the tomb, is a thing too certain, and well-known, to be denied. In Bayle's dictionary, there is the history of a lady of quality, belonging to the court of Catharine de Medicis, who was brought from the church vault, where she had been forty-eight hours, and afterwards became the mother of several children, on her marriage with the Marquis D'Auvergne. -The learned Dr. Connor, in his history of Poland, gives us a very wonderful relation of a gentleman's reviving[Page 423]
in that country, after he had been seemingly dead for near a fortnight; and adds a very curious dissertation on the nature of such recoveries. The case of Dun Scotus, who was found out of his coffin, on the steps going down to the vault he was deposited in, and leaning on his elbow, is full to my purpose. And I can affirm from my own knowledge, that a gentleman of my acquaintance, a worthy excellent man, was buried alive, and found not only much bruised and torn, on opening his coffin, but turned on one side. This many still living can attest as well as I. The reason of opening the grave again, was his dying of a high fever in the absence of his lady, who was in a distant county from him; and on her return, three days after he was buried, would have a sight of him, as she had been extremely fond of him. His face was sadly broke, and his hands hurt in striving to force up the lid of the coffin. The lady was so affected with the dismal sight, that she never held up her head after, and died in a few weeks. I could likewise add another extraordinary case of a man who was hang'd, and to all appearance was quite dead, yet three days after his execution recovered as they were going to cut him up. -How these things happen, is not easy to account for; but happen they do sometimes. And this case of Mrs. Stanvil, may be depended on as a fact.
[Page 424]
N. B. The following is the thing promised the English reader at page 381.The legend on the monument of Homonœa, translated into English.
Atimetus.
If it was allowed to lay down one's life for another, and possible by such means, to save what we loved from the grave, whatever length of days was allotted me, I would with pleasure offer up my life, to get my Homonœa from the tomb; but as this cannot be done, what is in my power I will do,-fly from the light of heaven, and follow you to the realms of lasting night.Homonœa.
My dearest Atimetus, cease to torment your unhappy mind, nor let grief thus feed on your youth, and make life bitterness itself. I am gone in the way appointed for all the mortal race: All must be numbered with the dead. And since fate is inexorable, and tears are in vain, weep not for me, once more I conjure you. But may you be ever happy, may providence preserve you, and[Page 425]
add to your life those years which have been taken from mine.The person who erected the monument to the memory of Homonœa.
Stop, traveller, for a few minutes, and ponder on these lines.Here lies Homonœa, whom Atimetus preferred to the greatest and most illustrious women of his time. She had the form of Venus, the charms of the graces; and an understanding and sensibility, which demonstrated that wisdom had given to an angel's form, a mind more lovely. Before she was twenty, she was dissolved. And as she had practised righteousness, by carrying it well to those about her, and to all that were specially related, she parted with them, as she had lived with them, in justice and charity, in modesty and submission, in thankfulness and peace. Filled with divine thoughts, inured to contemplate the perfections of God, and to acknowledge his providence in all events, she died with the humblest resignation to the divine will, and was only troubled that she left her husband a mourner. Excellent Homonœa.May the earth lie light upon thee, and in the morning of the resurrection, may you awake again to life, and rise to that immortality and glory, which God, the righteous[Page 426]
Judge, will give to true worth and dignity;-as rewards to a life adorned with all virtues and excellencies,-the dikaiómata, -that is, the righteous acts of the Saints.
[Page 427]

SECTION XII.

   Opinion's foot is never, never foundWhere knowledge dwells, 'tis interdicted ground;At wisdom's gate th' opinion's must resignTheir charge, those limits their employ confine.Thus trading barks, skill'd in the wat'ry road,To distant climes convey their precious load.Then turn their prow, light bounding o'er the main,And with new traffic store their keels again.Thus far is clear. But yet untold remains,What the good genius to the crowd ordains,Just on the verge of life.                     He bids them holdA spirit with erected courage bold.Never (he calls) on fortune's faith rely,Nor grasp her dubious gift as property.Let not her smile transport, her frown dismay,Nor praise, nor blame, nor wonder at her sway,Which reason never guides: 'tis fortune still,Capricious chance, and arbitrary will.Bad bankers, vain of treasure not their own,With foolish rapture hug the trusted loan.Impatient, when the pow'rful bond demandsIts unremember'd cov'nant from their hands.Unlike to such, without a sigh restoreWhat fortune lends: anon she'll lavish more.Repenting of her bounty, snatch away,Yea, seize your patrimonial fund for prey,Embrace her proffer'd boon, but instant rise,Spring upward, and secure a lasting prize,The gift which wisdom to her sons divides;Knowledge, whose beam the doubting judgment guides,Scatters the sensual fog, and clear to viewDistinguishes false int'rest from the true.Flee, flee to this, with unabating pace,Nor parly for a moment at the place,[Page 428]

Where pleasure and her harlots tempt, nor rest,But at false wisdom's inn, a transient guest:For short refection, at her table sit,And take what science may your palate hit:Then wing your journey forward, till you reachTrue wisdom, and imbibe the truth she'll teach.Such is th' advice the friendly genius gives,He perishes who scorns, who follows lives.
Scott's Cebes. (17) 439§. 1.440 With this advice of the genius in my head, (which by chance I had read the morning I took my leave of Dr. Stanvil,) I set out, as I had resolved, for York, and design'd to go from thence to London; hoping to meet with something good, and purposing, if it was possible, to be no longer the Rover, but turn to something useful, and fix. I had lost almost all at the gaming-table, (as related) and had not thirty pounds of my last hundred remaining: This, with a few sheep, cows and horses at Orton-lodge, and a very small stock at my little farm, on the[Page 429]
borders of Cumberland, was all I had left. It made me very serious, and brought some dismal apprehensions in view: But I did not despair. As my heart was honest, I still trusted in the providence of God, and his administration of things in this world. As the infinite power and wisdom of the Creator was evident, from a survey of this magnificent and glorious scene;-as his care and providence over each particular, in the administration of the great scheme was conspicuous; can man, the favourite of heaven, have reason to lift up his voice to complain, if he calls off his affections from folly, and by natural and supernatural force, by reason and revelation, overbears the prejudices of flesh and blood;-if he ponders the hopes and fears of religion,-and gives a just allowance to a future interest? Hearken to the commandments, (saith the Lord,) and your peace shall be as a river.§. 2.441 On then I trotted, brave as the man of wood, we read of in an excellent French writer, (18) 442 and hoped at the end of every[Page 430]
mile to meet with something fortunate; but nothing extraordinary occurred till the second evening, when I arrived at a little lone public-house, on the side of a great heath, by the entrance of a wood. For an hour before I came to this resting-place, I had rid in a tempest of wind, rain, lightning and thunder, so very violent, that it brought to my remembrance old Hesiod's description of a storm.

   Then Jove omnipotent display'd the god,And all Olympus trembled as he trod:He grasps ten thousand thunders in his hand,Bares his red arm, and wields the forky brand;Then aims the bolts, and bids his lightnings play,They flash, and rend thro' heav'n their flaming way:Redoubling blow on blow, in wrath he moves,The sing'd earth groans, and burns with all her groves:A night of clouds blots out the golden day,Full in their eyes the writhen lightnings play:Nor slept the wind; the wind new horror forms,Clouds dash on clouds before th' outragious storms;While tearing up the sands, in drifts they rise,And half the desarts mount th' encumber'd skies:At once the tempest bellows, lightnings fly,The thunders roar, and clouds involve the sky.
It was a dreadful evening upon a heath, and so much as a bush was not to be met[Page 431]
with for shelter: but at last we came to the thatched habitation of a publican, and I thought it a very comfortable place: We had bread and bacon, and good ale for supper, and in our circumstances, it seemed a delicious meal.§. 3.443 This man informed me, that about a mile from his habitation, in the middle of the wood, there dwelt an old physician, one Dr. Fitzgibbons, an Irish gentleman, who had one very pretty daughter, a sensible woman, to whom he was able to give a good fortune, if a man to both their liking appeared; but as no such one had as yet come in their way, my landlord advised me to try the adventure, and he would furnish me with an excuse for going to the doctor's house. This set me a thinking: Dr. Fitzgibbons, an Irish gentleman, I said: I know the man. I saved his son's life, in Ireland, when he was upon the brink of destruction, and the old gentleman was not only then as thankful as it was possible for a man to be, in return for the good I had done him, at the hazard of my own life; but assured me, a thousand times over, that if ever it was in his power to return my kindness, he would be my friend to the utmost of his ability. He must ever remember, with the greatest gratitude, the benefit I had[Page 432]
so generously conferred on him and his. All this came full into my mind, and I determined to visit the old gentleman in the morning.§. 4.Next day, as I had resolved, I went to pay my respects to Dr. Fitzgibbons, who remembered me perfectly well, was most heartily glad to see me, and received me in the most affectionate manner. He immediately began to repeat his obligations to me, for the deliverance I had given his son, and that if it was in his power to be of service to me in England, he would leave nothing undone that was possible for him to do, to befriend me. (19) 444 He told me, that[Page 433]
darling son of his, whose life I had saved, was an eminent physician at the court of Russia, where he lived in the greatest opulence and reputation: and as he owed his existence as such to me, his father could never be grateful enough in return. Can I any way serve you, Sir? Have you been fortunate or unfortunate, since your living in England? Are you married or unmarried? I have a daughter by a second wife, and if you are not yet engaged, will give her to you, with a good fortune, and in two years time; if you will study physic here, under my direction, will enable you to begin to practice, and get money as I have done in this country. I have so true a sense of that generous act you did to save my son, that I will with pleasure do any thing in my power that can contribute to your happiness.
[Page 434]
To this I replied, by thanking the doctor for his friendly offers, and letting him know, that since my coming to England several years ago, which was occasioned by a difference between my father and me; I had met with several turns of fortune, good and bad, and was at present but in a very middling way; having only a little spot among the mountains of Richmondshire, with a cottage and garden on it, and three or four beasts, which I found by accident without an owner, as I travelled through that uninhabited land; and a small farm of fifty acres with some stock, on the borders of Cumberland, which I got by a deceased wife. This, with about fifty guineas in my purse, was my all at present; and I was going up to London, to try if I could meet with any thing fortunate in that place; but that, since he was pleased to make me such generous offers, I would stop, study physic as he proposed, and accept the great honour he did me in offering me his daughter for a wife. I told him likewise very fairly and honestly, that I had been rich by three or four marriages since my being in this country; but that I was unfortunately taken in at a gaming-table, by the means of two Irish gentlemen he knew very well, and there lost all; which vext me the more, as I really do not love play:-that as to my father, I had little to expect from him, tho'[Page 435]
he had a great estate, as our difference was about religion; (which kind of disputes always have the cruellest tendency;) and the wife you know he married, a low cunning woman, does all she can to maintain the variance, and keep up his anger to me, that her nephew may do the better on my ruin. I have not writ to him since my being in England: Nor have I met with any one who could give me any account of the family. This is my case, Sir.And what (Dr. Fitzgibbons said) is this fine religious dispute, which has made your father fall out with a son he was once so fond of? -It was about trinity in unity, Sir: a thing I have often heard your son argue against by lessons he had from you, as he informed me. My father is as orthodox as Gregory Nazienzen, among the antient fathers, or Trapp and Potter, Webster and Waterland, among the modern doctors; and when he found out, that I was become an unitarian, and renounced his religion of three Gods, the horrible creed of Athanasius, and all the despicable explications of his admired divines, on that subject;-that I insisted, that notwithstanding all the subtle inventions of learned men, through the whole christian world, yet God Almighty hath not appointed himself to be worshipped by precept or example in any one instance in his holy word,[Page 436]
under the character of Father, Son, and Holy Ghost;-that the worship of three persons and one God is expresly contrary to the solemn determination of Christ and his Apostles;-and in numbers of instances in the New Testament it is declared, that the one God and Father of all is the only supreme object, to whom all religious worship should be directed:-that for these reasons, I renounced the received doctrine of a co-equal trinity, and believed our great and learned divines, who laboured to prevent people from seeing the truth as it is in Jesus, would be in some tribulation at Christ's tribunal; where they are to appear stripped of all worldly honours, dignities, and preferments, poor, naked, wretched mortals, and to answer for their supplement to the gospel, in an invented heresy of three Gods. -When my father heard these things, and saw the religious case of his son, his passion was very great. He forbid me his table, and ordered me to shift for myself. He renounced me, as I had done the triune God.The doctor wondered not a little at the account I had given him, (as my father was reckoned a man of great abilities,) and taking me by the hand, said, I had acted most gloriously: that what lost me my father's affection, was the very thing that ought to have[Page 437]
induced him to erect a statue to my honour in his garden:-that since I was pleased to accept of his offer, his friendship I might depend on:-that if I would, I should begin the next day the study of physic under his direction, and at the end of two years, he would give me his daughter, who was not yet quite twenty.§. 5.445 Just as he had said this, Miss Fitzgibbons entred the room, and her father introduced me to her. The sight of her astonished me; tho' I had before seen so many fine women, I could not help looking with wonder at her. She appeared one of those finished creatures, whom we cannot enough admire, and upon acquaintance with her, became much more glorious.What a vast variety of beauty do we see in the infinity of nature. Among the sex, we may find a thousand and a thousand perfect images and characters; all equally striking, and yet as different as the pictures of the greatest masters in Italy. What amazing charms and perfections have I beheld in women as I journeyed through life. When I have parted from one; well I said, I shall never meet another like this inimitable maid; and yet after all, Julia appeared divinely fair, and happy in every excellence that can[Page 438]
adorn the female mind. Without that exact regularity of beauty, and elegant softness of propriety, which rendered Miss Dunk, whom I have described in these Memoirs, a very divinity, Julia charmed with a graceful negligence, and enchanted with a face that glowed with youthful wonders, beauties that art could not adorn but always diminished. The choice of dress was no part of Julia's care, but by the neglect of it she became irresistible. In her countenance there ever appeared a bewitching mixture of sensibility and gaiety, and in her soul, by converse we discovered that generosity and tenderness were the first principles of her mind. To truth and virtue she was inwardly devoted, and at the bottom of her heart, tho' hard to discover it, her main business to serve God, and fit herself for eternity. In sum, she was one of the finest originals that ever appeared among womankind, peculiar in perfections which cannot be described; and so inexpressibly charming in an attractive sweetness, a natural gaiety, and a striking negligence, a fine understanding, and the most humane heart; that I found it impossible to know her without being in love with her: Her power to please was extensive indeed. In her, one had the loveliest idea of woman.
[Page 439]

§. 6.446 To this fine creature I was married at the end of two years from my first acquaintance with her; that is, after I had studied physic so long, under the care and instruction of her excellent father; who died a few weeks after the wedding, which was in the beginning of the year 1734, and the 29th of my age. Dying, he left me a handsome fortune, his library, and house; and I imagined I should have lived many happy years with his admirable daughter, who obliged me by every endearing means, to be excessively fond of her. I began to practise upon the old gentleman's death, and had learned so much in the two years I had studied under him, from his lecturing and my own hard reading, that I was able to get some money among the opulent round me; not by art and collusion, the case of too many doctors in town and country, but by practising upon consistent principles. The method of my reading, by Dr. Fitzgibbon's directions, was as follows; and I set it down here for the benefit of such gentlemen, as chuse to study in the private manner I did.
[Page 440]
A Method of studying Physic in a private Manner: By which means a Gentleman, with the Purchase of a Diploma, may turn out Doctor, as well as if he went to Padua, to hear Morganni.The first books I got upon my table, were the lexicons of Castellus and Quincy; one for the explication of antient terms; and the other of modern. These, as Dictionaries, lay at hand for use, when wanted.I then opened the last edition of Schelhammer's Herman Conringius's Introductio in universam artem medicam, singulasque ejus partes; I say the last edition, 1726, because that has an excellent preface by Hoffman. This book, which comes down to the beginning of the 17th century, I read with great care; especially Gonthier Christopher Schelhammer's notes, and additions, which have enriched the work very much. (By the way, they were both very great men, and bright ornaments to their profession. They writ an amazing number of books on medicine. Conringius died December 1681, aged 75. Schelhammer, in January 1716, in the 67th year of his age.)The next introductory book to the art, was Lindenius renovatus de scriptis medicis,[Page 441]
quibus præmittitur manuductio ad medicinam. This book was first called Libro duo de scripturis, &c. and written by Vander Linden, a famous Leyden professor, who published it in the year 1637, in a small octavo. In the same form it was printed in 1651 and 1662: these three editions at Amsterdam: But the valuable edition is that of Nuremburg, 1686, by George Abraham Merklinus, who made very many and excellent additions to this fourth edition, and called it Lindenius renovatus, as he had augmented it to a vast 4to. John Antonides Vander Linden died in March 1664, aged 55. And Merklinus in April 1702, in the 58th year of his age. They both writ many books in physic: but there have been such improvements made by the diligence and success of modern physicians, that it would be only loss of time to read over all their works, or all the authors of the 17th century.The next books I opened, were the learned Daniel Le Clerc's history of physic, which commences with the world, and ends at the time of Galen; and the great Dr. Friend's history, which is a continuation of Le Clerc, down to Linacre, the founder of the College of Physicians, in the reign of Henry VIII. -These books shewed me the origin and revolutions of physic, and the antient writers and their works on this subject. By the way, Daniel[Page 442]
Le Clerc died in June 1728, aged 76, and some months.When I had read these things, * 447 I turned next to botany, and read Raii Methodus plantarum emendata, Londini 1703. Raii Synopsis methodica stirpium, Ed. 3. And Tournefort's Institutiones rei herbariæ. These books with a few observations of my own, as I walked in the gardens, the fields, and on the plains, furnished me with sufficient knowledge of this kind for the present. The vast folio's on this subject are not for beginners.Chemistry was the next thing my director bid me look into, and to this purpose I perused Boerhaave's Elementa chemiæ, and Hoffman's Observationes physico-chemiæ: These afford as much chemistry as a young physician need set out with: but as books alone give but an imperfect conception, I performed most of the common operations in the portable furnace of Becher.The materia medica in the next place had my attention, that is, those animal, vegetable, and fossil substances, which are used to prevent, cure, or palliate diseases. And in order to know the names of all the drugs,[Page 443]
their history, the adulterations they are subject to, their virtues, their dose, their manner of using them, and the cautions which they require,-to get a sufficient knowledge of this kind, I looked into Geoffrey's materia medica, and made a collection of the materia at the same time, that I might conceive and remember what I read.Pharmacy, or the art of preparing and compounding medicines, was the next thing I endeavoured to be a master of. And that I might know how to exalt their virtues, to obviate their ill qualities, and to make them less nauseous, I read to this purpose, Quincy's pharmaceutical lectures and dispensatory: and took care to be well versed in all the pharmacopœia's, those of London, Edinburgh, Paris, Boerhaave, Bate, and Fuller. And I read very carefully Gaubin's methodus præscribendi. This gave me the materials, and taught me the form of prescribing.Anatomy I studied next, that is, the art of dividing the several parts of a body, so as to know their size, figure, situation, connexions, and make. I began with Drake and Keil, and then read over Winslow. I had likewise open before me at the same time, at my entrance upon this study, a good set of plates, the tables of Eustachius and Cooper, and turned them carefully over as I read. The doctor then shewed me how to dissect,[Page 444]
but chiefly by the direction of a book called the Culter Anatomicus of Michel Lyserus, ou methode courte, facile, & claire de dissequer les corps humaines. I was soon able to perform myself. It was the third edition of Lyserus, 1679; which has many curious anatomical observations added to it by Gaspard Bartholin, the son of the celebrated Thomas Bartholin, Copenhagen professor. (Michel Lysére was the disciple of the great Thomas Bartholin. Thomas died, December 1680, in his 64th year. Michel in 1659.) a young man; regretté à cause de son merite. I had also Nichol's Compendium, and Hunter's Compendium. By these means, and by reading the authors who have written upon some one part only; such as Peyerus de glandulis intestinus. Experimenta circa pancras. De Graaf de organis generationis. Gasp. Bartholin de diaphragm. Malpigius de pulmonibus- de venibus-de liene, et de cornuum vegetatione. Lower de corde-de ventriculo, et de cerebri anat. Willis de respiratione. Glisson de hepatæ. Casserius de vocis auditusque organis. Walsalou de aure. Havers on the bones. Munro on the bones. Douglas ou the muscles. Morgagni adversaria. Ruyshii opera. Nuck's Adenographia. Wharton's Adenographia. Ridley's anatomy of the brain. Santorini observationes. Boneti sepulchrum anatomicum. Blasii anatomia animalium. Tyson's anatomy of the oran-outang. By these means, I cut up the[Page 445]
body of a young woman, I had from a neighbouring church-yard, and acquired knowledge enough of anatomy.N. B. If all the pieces written upon some one part of the body, are not to be had single, the reader inclined to the delightful study of physic, will find them in the Bibliotheca Anatomica, 2 vols. folio.Here before I proceed, I will mention a very curious case, which occurred in my dissecting the body I have spoken of. 448 It was as remarkable an example of a preternatural structure as ever appeared. In cutting her up, there was found two vaginas, and a right and left uterus. Each uterus had its corresponding vagina, and the uteri and the vaginæ lay parallel to each other; there was only one ovarium; but two perfect hymens. The labia stretched so as to take in the anus, terminating beyond it; and as they were in large ridges, and well armed, the whole had a formidable appearance. If it should be asked, Could a perfect superfœtation take place in such a person? Most certainly there might be one conception upon the back of another at different times; therefore, I should not chuse to marry a woman with two vaginas, if it was possible to know it before wedlock.But to proceed,-The next things I read, were the Institutes of Medicine, that is, such books as treat of the œconomy and contrivance[Page 446]
of nature in adapting the parts to their several uses. The books purely physiological, are, Keil's Tentamina. Sanctorii aphorismi. Bellini de pulsibus et urina. Borellus de motu animalium. Harvey de motu cordis: -And de generatione animalium. (two admirable pieces.) Friend's Emmenologia. Simpson's System of the Womb. And Pitcairne's Tracts. These are the best things relating to physiology, which may be called the first part of the Institutions of Physic.The 2d part of the Institutes is the Art of preserving such a system as the body, in an order fit for the exercise of its functions as long as possible. The 3d part is pathology, which teaches the different manners in which diseases happen; and the various causes of these disorders, with their attendants and consequences: The 4th part is the doctrine of signs, by which a judgment is formed of the sound or bad state of the animal: And the 5th is Therapentica, that is, the means and method of restoring sanity to a distempered body. Treatises on all these matters, are what we call institutions of physic, and in relation to the four last mentioned, the best books are, Hoffman's Systema medicinæ rationalis, and Boerhaave's Institutions, with his lectures upon them. These books I read with great attention, and found them sufficient.
[Page 447]
Being instituted in this manner, I turned next to the practical writers, and read the history of diseases and their cure from observations of nature. This is called pathologia particularis, and is the great business of a physician. All that has been said is only preparatory to this study. Here then I first very carefully read the authors who have written a system of all diseases; and then, such writers as have considered particular cases. The best system writers are Boerhaave's aphorisms and comment. Hoffman's pathologia particularis; being the last part of his Systema medicinæ. Jumher's conspectus medicinæ. Allen's Synopsis. Shaw's Practice of physic; and Lomnii opusculum aureum.The writers on a few and particular distempers are, Sydenham opera. Moreton's Puretologia. Bellini de morbis capitis et pectoris. Ramazzini de morbis artificium. Wepsemus de apoplexia. Floyer on the asthma. Astruc de lue venerea. Turner's synopsis: And of the skin. Musgrave de arthritide. Highmore de passione hysterica et hypocondria. Glisson de rachitide. Clericus de lumbrico lato. Daventer ars obstetricandi. Mauriceau des femmes grosses. Harris de morbis infantium. Turner's letter to a young physician. All these books very carefully I read, and to your reading add the best observations you can any where get, or make yourself. I writ down in the shortest manner, abstracts[Page 448]
of the most curious and useful things, especially the representations of nature; and refreshed my memory by often looking into my notebook. Every thing taken from nature is valuable. Hypothesis is entertaining rather than useful.And when I was reading the history of diseases in the authors I have just mentioned, I looked into the antient Greek and Latin medical writers; for all their merit lies in this kind of history. Their pharmacy and anatomy is good for nothing. They scarce knew any thing of the human bodies, but from the dissections of other animals, took their descriptions. The great Vesalius in the beginning of the 16th century, was the first that taught physicians to study nature in dissecting human bodies; which was then considered by the church as a kind of sacrilege. (20) 449 As to chemistry, they had no[Page 449]
notion of it. It was not heard of till some hundred years after the latest of them. In botany they had made little progress. In short, as they knew little of botany;-nothing of chemistry; as their systems of natural philosophy and anatomy were false and unnatural, (and it is upon anatomy and natural philosophy, that physiology or the use of the parts is founded,) we can expect nothing from the antients upon these heads, but mere imaginations, or notions unsupported by observation or matter of fact. It is their history of diseases supports their character. Hippocrates, in particular, excels all others on this head: but this great man was not perfect even in this. Knowledge in nature is the daughter of time and experience. Many notions of the animal œconomy were then absurd; and if Hippocrates was too wise to act always up to his theory, yet he could not be intirely free from its influence.
[Page 450]
The names of the antient original greek medical writers are, Hippocrates, Dioscorides, Aritæus, Galen, and Alexander. The latin writers of physic are, Celsus, Scribonius Largus, Cælius Aurelianus, Marcellus Empericus, Theodorus Priscianus, and Sextus Placitus. We have besides several collectors, as Oribasius, Aetius, Paulus Æginita, &c. Nicander, the medical poet; and the fragments of Soranus, Rufus Ephesius, Zonorates, Vindicianus, Diocles Carystius, Cassius, and a few others: but all these may be looked into afterwards. The original authors are sufficient in the noviciate.As to the latin medical writers, Celsus, and Cælius Aurelianus only, are worth reading. Celsus lived in the latter end of the reign of Augustus, and is admirable for the purity of his latin, and the elegance of his sense. You must have him night and morning in your hands, till you are a master of the terms and expressions peculiar to physic, which occur in him. The style of Cælius is very bad, and his cavils tedious: but his description of diseases is full and accurate. In this respect he is a very valuable writer. He lived in the second century, as did Galen likewise.As to Hippocrates, who was contemporary with Socrates, he was born the first year of the 80th Olympiad, 460 before Christ. René[Page 451]
Chartier's Edit. Paris, 1639, is the most pompous: but Vander Linden's, Leyden, 1668, 2 vols. in 8vo, is the best. When I read Hippocrates, I did also look into Prosper Alpini's good book, De presagienda vita et morte ægrotantium: In which he has with great care collected and methodized all the scattered observations of Hippocrates, relating to the dangerous or salutary appearances in diseases. At the same time, I likewise read this great man's Medicina Methodica. (He died professor of botany at Padua, Feb. 1617, Æt 64. and was born November, 1553.) I did likewise look into the best commentators on Hippocrates; whose names you will find in Conringius's Introduction, which I have mentioned.N. B. The best edition of Dioscorides's Materia medica, is that of Frankfort, 1598, folio. The best edition of Aritæus, who lived before Julius Cesar's time (as Dioscorides did, A.D. 46) is Boerhaave's, 1731, folio. The best edition of Galen's works, are that of Bâle, 1538, in 5 vols. and that of Venice, 1625, in 7 volumes. Alexander of Tralles flourished in the 6th century, under Justinian the Great, and left the following works, Therapentica, Lib 12. De singularum corporis partium vitiis, ægritudinibus, & injuriis, Lib. 5. Epist. de lumbricis: Tractatus de puerorum morbis: Liber de febribus. The best greek copy is[Page 452]
that of Stephens, Paris, 1548, folio. In greek and latin, Basil, 1658. But in neither of these editions is to be found the Epistle de lumbricis. You must look for that in the 12th volume of Fabricius's Bibliotheca Græca.In the last place, besides all the authors I have mentioned, I likewise looked into the original observation writers, and miscellaneous books relating to physic. They afford excellent knowledge, where the authors are faithful and judicious. Such are the observationes medicæ of Nicolaus Tulpius (a curious book; and the dedication of it to his son Peter, a student in physic, good advice; 2d edition, 1652, is the best: it is a fourth part larger than the 1st edition, that came out in 1641.) The observationes et curationes medicinales of Petrus Forestus, Lib. 22. -The observationes medicæ of Joannes Theodorus Schenkius. -And the various Journals, and Transactions of learned Societies; which are repositories in which the physician finds much rare and valuable knowledge. And as a physician ought to have a little acquaintance with the modern practice of surgery, I concluded with Heister's, Turner's, and Sharp's Surgery.By this method of studying physic in the middle of a wood, and employing my time and pains in reading the antients, and considering[Page 453a]
their plain and natural account of diseases, I became a Doctor, as well as if I had been a regular collegiate in the world. -But it is time to think of my various story, and I shall detain my Reader no longer from it, than while he reads the following translation of the charming mythological picture of Cebes; which is placed here, as the golden 10th Satire of Juvenal is put after the XIIIth Section of this work, by way of entertainment between the acts.A Translation of the Table of Cebes.The thing is a Dialogue between an Old Man and a Traveller.While we were walking in the temple of Saturn, (in the city of Thebes,) and viewing the votive honours of the God, the various offerings which had been presented to that deity, we observed at the entrance of the Fane,[Page 454a]
a picture tablet that engaged our attention, as it was a thing intirely new, both with regard to the painting and the design. For some time, we stood considering the device and fable, but still found ourselves unable to guess the meaning. The piece did not seem to be either a city or a camp; but was a kind of a walled court, that had within it two other inclosures, and one of them was larger than the other. The first court opened at a gate, before which a vast crowd of people appeared, impatient to enter; and within a group of female figures was represented. Stationed at the porch without, was seen a venerable[Page 455a]
form, who looked like some great teacher, and seemed to warn the rushing multitude. Long we gazed at this work, but were not able to understand the design, till an old man came up to us, and spoke in the following manner.§. 1. O. It is no wonder strangers, that you cannot comprehend this picture: for even our inhabitants are not able to give a solution of the allegoric scene. The piece is not an offering of any of our citizens, but the work of a foreigner, a man of great learning and virtue, and a zealous disciple of the Samian or Elean sages, who[Page 456a]
arrived here many years ago, and by his conversation instructed us in the best learning, which is morality. It was he built and consecrated this temple to Saturn, and placed here this picture you see before you.
[Page 453b]

A Translation of the Mythological Picture of Cebes: By the Rev. and famous Jeremy Collier.As we were taking a turn in Saturn's temple, we saw a great many consecrated presents, remarkable enough for their curiosity: Amongst the rest, we took particular notice of a picture hung over the door; the piece we perceived[Page 454b]
was all emblem and mythology; but then the representation was so singular and out of custom, that we were perfectly at a loss whence it should come, and what was the meaning of it. Upon a strict view, we found it was neither a city, nor a camp, but a sort of court, with two partitions of the same figure within it, tho' one of them was larger than the other. The first court had a crowd of people at the gate, and within we saw a great company of women. Just at the entrance of the first gate, there stood an old man, who by his gesture and countenance, seemed to be busy in giving advice to the crowd as they[Page 455b]
came in. And being long at a stand about the design of the fable, a grave man somewhat in years, making up, begins to discourse us in this manner. Gentlemen, says he, I understand you are strangers, and therefore 'tis no wonder the history of this picture should puzzle you: For there are not many of our own countrymen than can explain it. For you are to observe, this is none of our town manufacture * 450 . But a long while ago, a certain outlandish man † 451 of great sense and learning, and who by his discourse and behaviour, seem'd to be a disciple of Pythagoras and Parmenides;[Page 456b]
this gentleman, I say, happening to travel hither, built this structure, and dedicated both the temple and this piece of painting to Saturn. Sir, said I, had you any acquaintance with this gentleman. Yes, says he, I had the benefit of his conversation, and was one of his admirers a long time. For, to my thinking, tho' he was but young, he talked at a strange significant rate * 452 .N.B. The remainder of Collier's facetious version, is omitted for want of room.T. And did you know, (I said) and converse with this wise man?O. Yes, (he replied) I was long acquainted with him, and as he was but young, and talked with great judgment upon the most[Page 457]
important subjects, with astonishment I have listned to him, and with pleasure heard him explain the moral of this fable.T. Expound to us then, (I conjure you) the meaning of the picture, if business does not call you away; for we long to be instructed in the design of the piece.O. I am at leisure, (the old man answered) and willingly consent to your request; but I must inform you first, there is some danger in what you ask. If you hearken with attention, and by consideration understand the precepts, you will become wise, virtuous, and blest * 453 : if otherwise, you will be abandoned, blind, and miserable † 454 . The explanation of the picture resembles the enigma of the Sphinx, which she proposed to every passenger that came that way. If they could expound the riddle they were safe; but if they failed in the attempt, they were destroyed by the monster ‡ 455 . Folly is as it were a Sphinx to mankind. She asks you, How is good and ill defined? If you cannot explain the problem, and happen to misjudge, you perish by degrees, and become[Page 458]
the victim of her cruelty. You do not die immediately, as the unhappy did by the Theban monster; but by the force and operation of folly, you will find yourself dying from day to day, your rational part wounded and decayed, every noble power of the soul confounded, and like those given up to punishment for life, feel the last of those pangs, which guilt prepares for the stupid: but if by thinking, you can understand and discern the boundaries of good and ill, then folly like the Sphinx must perish, and your life will be blest with happiness and serenity. -Hear me then with all your attention.These things being previously observed by the old man, and we intreating him to begin, he lifted up a wand he held, and pointing to the picture, said, the first inclosure represents human life, and the multitude at the gate, those who are daily entring into the world. That aged person you see on an eminence, directing with one hand, and holding in the other a roll, which is the code of reason, is the genius of mankind; benevolent, he seems to bend, and teach the people what they ought to do; shews them as they enter into life the path they ought to take; the way which leads to danger, and that which bears to safety and happiness.T. And which is the way, (I said) and how are they to find it?
[Page 459]
O. That you shall know hereafter: but at present you must take notice of that painted woman seated on a throne very near the gate. She is called Delusion, and by every art, with fawn and soft infection, presents a bowl of ignorance and error to all that enter into life. They take the cup, and in proportion to what they have drank of the intoxicating mixture, are led away by the women you see, at a little distance from Imposture, to destruction some, and some to safety; less erring and less blind those being who have but tasted of delusion's cup.These women so variously drest, and so profusely gay, are called the Opinions, Desires, and Pleasures: You observe how they embrace each mortal as he arrives within the gate, promise the greatest blessings, and compel their votaries to wander with them where they please.T. But who (I asked) is that woman placed on a globe, who appears not only blind, but seems to be wild and distracted? Incessantly she walks about, and flings her favours capriciously: From some she snatches their effects and possessions, and bestows them upon others.O. They call her Fortune, (replied the old man). Her attitude marks her character. Her gifts are as unstable as her tottering ball; and all who depend upon her specious promises,[Page 460]
are deceived when most they trust her, and find themselves exposed to the greatest misfortunes.T. There is a great crowd I perceive surrounding her, and if too commonly she meditates mischief, whene'er she smiles, what is the meaning of their attendance?O. These are the inconsiderate, and stand there to catch the toys she blindly scatters among them; (wealth, fame, titles, an offspring, strength or beauty, the victor's laurel, and arbitrary power:) Those who rejoice, and are lavish in their praises of this divinity, have received some favours from her, and call her the goddess of good fortune: But those whom you see weeping and wringing their hands, are such whom she has deprived of every good; they curse her as the goddess of ill fortune.T. But (replied I) as to riches, glory, nobility, a numerous posterity, power, and honour, which you called toys, why are they not real advantages?O. Of these things (our instructor answered) we shall speak hereafter more fully: At present it is better to continue the explication of the picture.§. 2. Cast your eyes next then on that higher inclosure, (proceeded the old man) and take notice of the women on the outside thereof. You observe how wantonly they are[Page 461]
drest: The first of them is Incontinence, loosely zoned, her bosom bare; and the other three are, Riot, Covetousness, and Flattery. They watch for the favourites of fortune. You see they caress them, and try to bring them to the pleasures of their soft retreat; where the bowl sparkles, the song resounds, and joys to joys succeed in every jocund hour: But at length Distress appears, and the favourite of a day discovers, that his happiness was merely imaginary, under a delusion; but the evils that attend his pleasures real. When he has wasted all he had received from fortune, he is forced to enter himself into the service of those mistresses, and by them compelled to dare the foulest and most desperate deeds; villain and knave he becomes; stabs for a purse; his country sells for gold; and by deceit and sacrilege, by perjury, treachery, and theft, endeavours for some time to live. But shiftless at length, and unable to acquire support by crimes, they are consigned to the dire gripe of Punishment.T. What is she, I beg you will inform us?O. Look beyond those women, called the Opinions, (continued the old man) and you will see a low gate, opening into a dark and narrow cave: you may observe at the entrance of it, three female figures very swarthy and foul, covered with rags and filthiness; and near them, standing naked by their side,[Page 462]
a frightful lean man * 456 . Close to him is another woman, so meagre and ghastly you perceive, that it is not possible for any thing to resemble him more.T. We see them, and request to be informed who they are?O. The first with a whip in her hand, is Punishment, and next to her sits Sadness, with her head reclining on her knees; that woman tearing her hair is Trouble; the naked lean man is Sorrow, and the image by his side wild Despair. You see they are all going to seize the unhappy man of pleasure, and make him feel the greatest pain and anguish: For they carry him to the house of Misery, and in the pit of Woe he is to pass the remainder of life, unless Repentance comes to his relief.T. And what then follows, (I said) if Repentance interposes?O. She rescues him from his tormentors, and gives him a new view of things. He has from her some account of true learning, but the hint so short, that it may lead him likewise to false learning. If he be so happy as to understand, and chuse right, he is delivered from prejudice and error, and passes the rest of his days in tranquillity and peace: but if he be mistaken, instead of wisdom, he[Page 463]
only gains that amusing counterfeit, which turns him from vice to studious folly.T. Great (I replied) are the risks we mortals run: But who is this false learning?§. 3. O. At the entrance of the second inclosure * 457 , you may observe a woman neatly drest, and of a good appearance; decent the port,-spotless the form: This is the counterfeit, but the vulgar call her true learning: Even the happy few, who succeed in the pursuit of wisdom, are commonly detained too long by this deceiving fair one: Nor is it strange; for, skilled as she is in all the learning, and in every art can grace the head, you see what crouds of admirers she has; poets, orators, logicians, musicians, arithmeticians, geometricians, astrologers, and critics.T. But who, (I asked my instructor,) are those women, so busy on every side, and so earnest in their addresses to this company? They look like Incontinence and her companions, and the opinions whom you shewed us in the first court. Do they also frequent the second inclosure?O. Yes, (replied the old man,) Incontinence is sometimes seen here. The opinions do likewise enter; for the early potion these men received from Imposture still operates. Ignorance[Page 464]
finds a place here; and even Extravagance and Folly. They remain under the power of these, till having left false learning, they enter upon the path that leads to Wisdom. When they arrive at the enlightned ground of Truth, they get her sovereign remedy * 458 , and are freed from the ill effects of Ignorance and Error. This enables them to throw off the wild hypothesis,-the learned romance,- and to employ the precious hours of life in thinking to the wisest purposes. Had they staid with false learning, they never could have delivered themselves from these evils.T. Proceed then, I pray you, (said I) and shew us the way that leads to Happiness and Wisdom.§. 4. O. Do you see (proceeded the venerable man,) that rising ground, which appears[Page 465]
so desart and uninhabited. You may observe upon it a little gate, that opens in a narrow and unfrequented path; the avenue a rugged rocky way. You perceive a little onward, a steep and craggy mountain with precipices on either side, which sink to a frightful depth. This is the way to Wisdom.T. It seems a dreadful way, as painted in this table.O. Yet higher still observe that rock, towards the mountain's brow, and take notice of the two figures which sit upon it's edge, and appear to be as beautiful and comely as the goddess of health. They are sisters; Temperance the one, Patience the other. With friendship in their looks, and arms protended over the verge of the cliff, you see them lean, to encourage those who pass this way, and rouze the spirits of the fainting sons of Wisdom, who has stationed these two sisters there. They urge the brave men on; tell them the hardships will lessen by degrees,- the passage will become more easy and agreeable as they advance, and offer them their assistance to ascend the summit, and reach the top of the rock. That being gained, they shew them the easiness and pleasantness of the rest of the way to wisdom: The charming road invites one's eyes: How smooth and flowery, green and delightful, does it appear!
[Page 466]
T. It does indeed.§. 5. O. Look next (the excellent old man continued,) at that distant blooming wood, and near it you will see a beautiful meadow, on which there seems to fall a light as from a purer heaven, a kind of double day. In this lightsome field* 459 , you may perceive a gate which opens into another inclosure, which is the abode of the blessed. Here the Virtues dwell with Happiness. In this region of eternal beauty, the righteous rest.T. It does appear a charming place.O. Observe then near the portal, a beauteous form of a composed aspect: † 460 She seems mature in life, and her robe is quite plain, without affectation or ornaments. Her eyes are piercing; her mien sedate: She stands not on a globe, (like Fortune) but upon a cube of marble, fixed as the rock she is on before the gate. You see on either side of her two lovely nymphs, the very copies of her looks and air. This matron in the middle is true learning, Wisdom herself; and the two young beauties are Truth and Persuasion. Her standing on a square, is an expressive type of certainty in the way to her; and denotes the unalterable and permanent nature of the blessings she bestows on those who come to[Page 467]
her. From her they receive courage and serenity; that confidence and contempt of fear, which exempts the happy possessors from any disturbance, by the accidents and calamities of life.T. These are valuable gifts. But why without the walls does Wisdom stand?O. To present the purifying bowl to those who approach, and restore them to themselves. As a physician by degrees first finds out the cause of a violent disorder, and then removes it, in order to restore the man to health; so Wisdom, as she knows their malady, administers her sovereign medicine, and frees them from all their evils. She expels the mischiefs they had received from delusion, their ignorance and error, and delivers them from pride, lust, anger, avarice, and all the other vices they had contracted in the first inclosure. In a word, she restores them to sanity, and then sends them in to Happiness and the Virtues.T. Who are they? (I said).§. 6. O. Do you not see within the gate, (my instructor replied) a society of matrons, beautiful and modest, drest unaffected, and without any thing of the gay excess? These are Science and her sisters, Fortitude, Justice, and Integrity, Temperance, Modesty, Liberality, Continence, Clemency, and Patience. They hail[Page 468]
their guests, and the company seem to be in raptures.T. But when the friends to virtue are admitted into this charming society, where do they lead then to?O. See you not (resumed the good old man,) the hill beyond the grove; that eminence which is the highest point of all the inclosures, and commands a boundless prospect. There, on a glorious throne, you may observe a majestic person in her bloom, well drest, but without art or lavish cost, and her temples adorned with a beautiful Tiar: This is Happiness, the regent of that blessed abode, and as the moral heroes approach her, you may perceive her, with the Virtues who stand assistant round her, going to reward the friends of wisdom with such crowns as are bestowed on conquerors.T. Conquerors! (I said) In what conflicts have these persons been victorious?O. They have, in their way to the realm of Happiness, destroyed the most formidable and dangerous monsters, who would have destroyed them, if they had not been subdued: These savage beasts at war with man are, ignorance and error; grief, vexation, avarice, intemperance, and every thing that is evil. These are vanquished, and have lost all their power. The moral hero triumphs now, tho' their slave before.
[Page 469]
T. Great atchievements indeed! A glorious conquest. But exclusive of the honour of being crowned by Happiness and the Virtues, is there any salutary power in the crown that adorns the hero's head?O. There is, young man. The virtue of it is great. Possessing this, he is happy and blessed. He derives his felicity from no external object, but from himself alone.T. O happy victory! And being thus crowned, what does the hero do-where next his steps?O. Conducted by the Virtues, he goes back to survey his first abode, and see the crowd he left;-how miserably they pass their time; waste all their hours in crimes, and in the whirl of passions live. Slaves to ambition, pride, incontinence, vanity, and avarice, they appear tormented with endless anxiety. They have forgot the instructions the good genius gave them, at their entrance into life, and suffer thus because they cannot find the way to Wisdom.T. True: (I said) But I cannot comprehend, why the Virtues should bring the heroes back to the place they came from: Why should they return to view a well-known scene?O. The reason (answered my instructor) is, because they had not a true idea of what they had seen. Surrounded by a confusion[Page 470]
of things as they passed on, they could not distinctly perceive what was done. The mists of ignorance and error obscured the prospect as they journied on, and by that means, they were subject to mistakes. They could not always distinguish between good and evil. But now that they have attained to true learning, with concern they behold the mad world the virtues shew them again, and being enlightned by wisdom, are perfectly happy in themselves. The misery of the numberless fools they behold now, strikes them very strongly, and gives them a delightful relish for their present happiness.T. It must be so. And when they have seen these things, where do they then go?O. Wherever they please. Safely they may travel where they will: In all times, and in all places they are secure, as their integrity is their defence. Every where they live esteemed and beloved by all. The female monsters I have mentioned, Grief, Trouble, Lust, Avarice, or Poverty, have now no power to hurt them; but as if possessed of some virtuous drug, they can grasp the viper, and defy destruction.T. What you say is just. But who are all these persons descending the hill?O. Those that are crowned (the old man said) are the happy few I have described. You see what joy is in their faces: And those[Page 471]
who seem forlorn and desperate, under the command of certain women, are such who by their folly have not found the way to true learning; or stopping at the rough and narrow ascent you observed, went to look for an easier path, and so quite lost the road. The tormentors who drive them on are, Trouble, Despair, Ignominy, and Ignorance. Wretched you see them return into the first inclosure, to Luxury and Incontinence: and yet they do not accuse themselves as the authors of their own ruin, which is very strange; but rail at Wisdom, and revile her ways; asserting, that the true pleasures of life are only to be found in luxury and riot. Like the brutes, they place the whole satisfaction of man in the gratification of sensual appetite.T. But who are those other lovely women, who return down the hill so full of gaiety and mirth?O. They are the opinions, who having conducted the virtuous to the region of light, are coming back to invite and carry others thither, by shewing them the felicity and success of those they brought to the mansion of Wisdom.T. And do the opinions never enter with those they bring into that happy place, where the virtues and true learning reside?O. No: Opinion can never reach to science; they only deliver their charge into the hands[Page 472]
of wisdom, and then, like ships that give up their lading, in order to sail for a new cargo, they return to bring other Eleves to reason and felicity.T. This explanation of the table, (I said) is quite satisfactory: But you have not yet informed us, what the good genius bids the multitude do, as they appear on the verge of life?O. He charges them to act with courage, and be magnanimous and brave in all events; a thing I recommend to you, young man; and that you may have a true idea of this, I will tell you what I mean by a bold spirit, in passing through this world.§. 7. O. Then lifting up his arm again, and pointing with his wand to a figure in the picture; that blind woman standing on a globe, as I told you before, is Fortune. The genius forbids us to trust her, or imagine her smiles will be lasting happiness. Reason is never concerned in what she does. It is Fortune still; without principle she acts, is arbitrary and capricious, and inconsiderately and rashly for ever proceeds. Regard not then her favours, nor mind her frowns: But as she gives and takes away, and often deprives of what we had before, we are neither to esteem or despise her; but if we should receive from her a gift, take care to employ it immediately to some good purpose, and especially,[Page 473]
in the acquisition of true science, the most lasting and precious possession. If we act otherwise, in respect of Fortune, we imitate those wretched usurers, who rejoice at the money paid in to them, as if they received it for their own use; but pay it back with regret, forgetting the condition, that it was to be returned to the proprietor on demand. Regardless of Fortune then, and all her changes in this mortal life, the genius advises to pass bravely on, without hearkning to the sollicitations of Incontinence and Luxury in the first inclosure, to reject their temptations, and go on to false learning: With her he would have us make a short stay, to learn what may be of service to use in our journey to Wisdom. This is the advice of the genius to those who enter into life.T. Here the good old man had done, and I thanked him for his explanation of the picture. Only one thing (I said) there was more, which I must request he would tell me the meaning of. What is it we can get by our stay with false learning?O. Things (he answered) that may be of use to us. The languages, and other parts of education, which Plato recommends, may hinder us from being worse employ'd, and keep us from illicit gratification. They are not absolutely necessary to true happiness; but they contribute to make us better. Something[Page 474]
good and useful they do afford; tho' virtue, which ought to be the principal business in view, may be acquired without them. We may become wise without the assistance of the arts, tho' (as observed before,) they are far from being useless: as by a good translation made into our own tongue, we may know what an author means, and yet by taking the pains to become masters of the original language, might gain more advantages,-such as entring better into the writer's sense, and discovering some beauties which cannot otherwise be found: So the useful things in the sciences may be very quickly and easily learned, and tho' by great labour in becoming accurately acquainted with them, we might fill our heads with speculations, yet this cannot make us the wiser and better men. Without being learned, we may be wise and good.T. And are the learned then in no better a condition than the people in respect of moral excellence? (I said). Are the speculations of the scholar, and the arts and fine inventions of the schools, of no use in perfecting the moral character? This to me seems a little strange.O. Blind as the crowd is the man of letters, in this particular (my instructor replied): All his studies and curious knowledge have no relation to his living right. With all the tongues, and all the arts, he may be a libertine,[Page 475]
a sot, a miser, or a knave, a traitor to his country, and have no moral character at all. This we see every day.T. But what is the cause of so strange a thing, I requested to know? I observe that these men of letters seem to sit down contented in the second inclosure, and do not attempt to go on to the third where Wisdom resides; tho' they see continually before their eyes so many passing on from the first court, where they had lived for some time in lewdness and excess, to the habitation of true learning.O. It is their remaining in this second inclosure, that occasions their being inferior in moral things to those who have not had a learned education. Proud and self-sufficient on account of their languages, arts, and sciences, they despise what Wisdom could teach them, and will not give themselves the trouble of ascending with difficulty to the mansion of true learning. They have no taste for the lessons of Wisdom; while the humble mount to her exalted dwelling, those scholars, as you see, are satisfied with their speculations and vain conceits. Dull and untractable in the improvement of their hearts, and regardless of that exact rectitude of mind and life, which is only worth a rational's toiling for (as he is an Eleve for eternity), they never think of true wisdom, nor mind her offered light. Their curious ingenious notions,[Page 476]
are what they only have a relish for; the imaginations of those men of letters cannot reach that ineffable peace and contentment, that satisfaction and pleasure, which flow from a virtuous life and an honest heart. This is the case of our learned heads, unless repentance interferes to make them humble, and scatters the vain visions they had from false opinion.This (concluded the venerable teacher) is the explication of this parable or allegory. May you oft revolve upon these lessons, and lend your whole attention to the attainment of true wisdom, that you may not embrace her shadow, the speculations and inventions of the learned, but, by this instruction, acquire the true principles of morality and goodness. (21) 461
[Page 478]

[Page 479]

SECTION XIII.


   Look round the habitable world, how fewKnow their own good; or knowing it, pursue.How void of reason are our hopes and fears!What in the conduct of our life appearsSo well design'd, so luckily begun,But, when we have our wish, we wish undone?
The tenth Satire of Juvenal. Dryden.



   Omnibus in terris quæ sunt a Gadibus usqueAuroram et Gangem, pauci dignoscere possuntVera bona, atque illis multum diversa remotaErroris nebula: quid enim ratione timemusAut cupimus? Quid tam dextro pede concipis, ut teConatus non pæniteat, votique peracti?
Juvenalis, Sat. X. (22) 462§. 1.463 Having married the illustrious Julia, as related in my last Section, and by the death of her father soon after the wedding, acquired a handsome settlement,[Page 480]
a considerable sum of money, and a valuable collection of books; I thought myself so happily situated in the midst of[Page 481]
flourishing mercies, and so well secured from adversity, that it was hardly possible for the flame of destruction to reach me. But when I had not the least reason to imagine calamity was near me, and fondly imagined prosperity was my own, infelicity came stalking on unseen; and from a fulness of peace, plunged us at once into an abyss of woe. It was our wont, when the evenings were fine, to take boat at the bottom of a meadow, at the end of our garden, and in the middle[Page 482]
of a deep river, pass an hour or two in fishing; but at last, by some accident or other, a slip of the foot, or the boat's being got a little too far from the bank-side, Julia fell in and was drowned. This happened in the tenth month of our marriage. The loss of this charming angel in such a manner, sat powerfully on my spirits for some time; and the remembrance of her perfections, and the delights I enjoyed while she lived, made me wish I had never seen her. To be so vastly happy as I was, and be deprived of her in a moment, in so shocking a way, was an affliction I was hardly able to bear. It struck me to the heart. I sat with my eyes shut ten days.§. 2.464 But losses and pains I considered were the portion of mortals in this trying state, and from thence we ought to learn to give up our own wills; and to get rid of all eager wishes, and violent affection, that we may take up our rest wholly in that which pleaseth God: Carrying our submission to him so far, as to bless his correcting hand, and kiss that rod that cures our passionate eagerness, perverseness, and folly.We ought likewise to learn from such things, to look upon the sad accidents of life, as not worthy to be compared with what Christ underwent for our sakes, who, though[Page 483]
he was a Son, yet he learnt obedience by the things that he suffered; and with christian resignation live in a quiet expectance of a future happy state, after our patience has had its perfect work: Considering that these light and momentary afflictions, are not worthy to be compared with the glory that Christ hath purchased for us; and if we are faithful to death, hath promised to bestow upon us.In all these things resigning to the wisdom of God, and not merely to his will and authority, believing his disposal to be wisest and best; and that his declarations and promises are true, though we cannot in some cases discern the reason of such an end, and such means being connected: Nor can imagine how some promises can be made good. Patience, (I said) my soul! Patience, and what thou knowest not now, thou shalt know in a little time. Thus I reasoned, as I sat with my eyes shut.§. 3.465 And when I had done, I called to Soto ô Finn, my man, to bring the horses out immediately, and I would go some where or other to see new scenes, and if I could, get another wife: As I was born with the disease of repletion, and had made a resolution not to fornicate; it was incumbent on me to have a sister and companion, with whom I might lawfully carry on the succession. As a friend[Page 484]
to society, and passively-obedient to the laws of my higher country, a wife for ever, I declared; for, if on losing one, we can be still so fortunate as to get another, who is pretty without pride; witty without affectation; to virtue only and her friends a friend:

   Whose sense is great, and great her skill,For reason always guides her will;Civil to all, to all she's just,And faithful to her friend and trust:Whose character, in short, is such,That none can love or praise too much.
If such a charmer should again appear, and ten thousand such there ever are among the sex, silly and base tho' the majority may be; what man could say he had had enough of wedlock, because he had buried seven such wives? I am sure I could not. And if, like the men who were but striplings at fourscore, in the beginning of this world, I was to live for ages, and by accidents lost such partners as I have described; I would with rapture take hundreds of them to my breast, one after another, and piously propagate the kind. The most despicable of all creatures is a whore. An abomination to heaven: And if God was a mere fanciful fear; yet such a wretch the prostitute is, that neither honour nor honesty can ever be expected from her. But, in defiance to divine and human laws, she lives a foe to mankind; to ruin the fortune,[Page 485]
pox the body, and for ever damn the soul of the miserable man, who is dunce enough to become a Limberham to the execrable wretch. The misfortunes I have known happen to gentlemen of my acquaintance, by street-whores, chamber-whores, and kept-whores, would make a volume as large as this I am writing: and leave another world quite out of the history. I have seen gentlemen of the best fortunes and education, become worn-out beggars in the streets of London, without any thing hardly to cover them, by the means of those execrable harlots; some have become bullies to bawdy-houses; and many I have beheld going to the gallows, by maintaining the falsest and least-engaging of women: But take a modest sensible woman to your heart, who has the fear of the great God before her eyes, and a regard to the laws of her country: Share your fortune generously with her, that she may have her innocent amusements and dress, be for ever good-humoured, be true to her bed, and every felicity you may taste that it is possible to enjoy in this lower hemisphere. Let a wife be our choice, as we are rationals.§. 4.466 With these notions in my head, I mounted my horse; and determined, in the first place, to pay a visit to my two beauties at Orton-lodge, who were by this time at age, and see what opinions they had acquired,[Page 486]
and if they had any command for me: But when I arrived at my romantic spot, I found the ladies were gone, all places shut up, and no soul there; the key of the house-door was left for me, and a note fastned to it, to inform me how the affair was.
SIR,Not having had the favour of hearing from you for almost three years, and despairing of that honour and happiness any more, we have left your fine solitude, to look after our fortunes, as we are of age; and on enquiry have found, that old Cock, our cruel guardian, is dead and gone. We are under infinite obligations to you, have an extreme sense of your goodness, and hope, if you are yet in the land of the living, that we shall soon be so happy as to get some account of you, to the end we may return the weighty balance due from,SIR,Your most obliged,and ever humble servants,**** *******From the date of this letter it appeared, that they were not a month gone before my arrival; but to what place they said not, and it was in vain for me to enquire. I found every thing in good order, and all the goods safe;[Page 487]
the garden full of fruits and vegetables, and plenty of various eatables in the house, pickled, potted, and preserved. As it was in the month of June, the solitude looked vastly charming in it's vales and forest, its rocks and waters; and for a month I strove to amuse myself there, in fishing, shooting, and improving the ground; but it was so dull, so sad a scene, when I missed the bright companions I had with me in former days; who used to wander with me in the vallies, up the hills, by the streams, and make the whole a paradise all the long day, that I could not bear it longer than four weeks; and rid from thence to Dr. Stanvil's seat, to ask him how he did, and look once more at that fine curiosity, Miss Drunk that was, but at the time I am speaking of, his wife. However, before I left my lodge, I made a discovery one day, as I was exploring the wild country, round my little house, that was entertaining enough, and to this day, in remembrance, seems to me so agreeable, that I imagine a relation of this matter may be grateful to my Readers. It contains the story of a lady, who cannot be enough admired, can never be sufficiently praised.
[Page 488]
The History of the beautiful Leonora.
§. 5.As I rambled one summer's morning, with my gun and my dog, over the vast mountains, which surrounded me at Orton-lodge, I came as the sun was rising to a valley about four miles from my house, which I had not seen before, as the way to it, over the Fells, was a dangerous road. It was green and flowery, had clumps of oaks in several spots, and from the hovering top of a precipice at the end of the glin, a river falls ingulphed in rifted rocks. It is a fine rural scene.Here I sat down to rest myself, and was admiring the natural beauties of the place, when I saw three females turn into the vale, and walk towards the water-fall. One of them, who appeared to be the mistress, had an extravagance of beauty in her face, and a form such as I had not often seen. The others were pretty women, drest like quakers, and very clean. They came very near the water where I was, but did not see me, as I was behind two rocks which almost joined: And after they had looked a while at the headlong river, they went back, and entring a narrow-way between two hills disappeared. I was greatly surprised at what I[Page 489]
had seen, not imagining I had such a neighbour in Richmondshire, and resolved to know who this beauty was. The wonders of her face, her figure, and her mien, were striking to the last degree.Arising then as soon as they were out of sight, I walked on to the turning I saw them enter; and in half an hour's time came to a plain, thro' which several brooks wandered, and on the margin of one of them, was a grove and a mansion. It was a sweet habitation, at the entrance of the little wood; and before the door, on banks of flowers, sat the illustrious owner of this retreat, and her two maids. In such a place, in such a manner, so unexpectedly to find so charming a woman, seemed to me as pleasing an incident as could be met with in travelling over the world.At my coming near this lady she appeared to be astonished, and to wonder much at seeing such an inhabitant in that part of the world: but on pulling off my hat, and telling her I came to visit her as her neighbour; to pay my humble respects to her, and beg the honour of her acquaintance; she asked me, from what vale or mountain I came, and how long I had been a resident in that wild part of the world? This produced a compend of some part of my story, and when I had done, she desired me to walk in. Coffee[Page 490]
and hot rolls was soon brought, and we breakfasted chearfully together. I took my leave soon after, having made her a present of some black cocks and a hare I had shot that morning; and hoped, if it was possible to find an easy way to my lodge, which I did not yet know, that I should some time or other be honoured with her presence at my little house; which was worth her seeing, as it was situated in the most delightful part of this romantic silent place, and had many curiosities near it; that in the mean time, if it was agreeable, I would wait upon her again, before I left Richmondshire, which would be soon: For I only came to see how things were, and was obliged to hasten another way. This beauty replied, that it would give her pleasure to see me, when I had a few hours to spare. Three times more then I went very soon; we became well acquainted, and after dinner one day, she gave me the following relation.My name was Leonora Sarsfield before I married an Irishman, one Burk, whom I met at Avignon in France. He is one of the handsomest men of the age, tho' his hopes were all his fortune; but proved a villain as great as ever disgraced mankind. His breeding and his eloquence, added to his fine figure, induced me to fancy him an angel of a man, and imagine I had well bestowed a hundred[Page 491]
thousand pounds, to make him great, and as happy as the day is long: For three months he played the god, and I fondly thought there was not such another happy woman as myself in all the world. I was mistaken. Burk found out by some means or other, that I had concealed five thousand pounds of my fortune from his knowledge; and that I was in my heart so good a protestant, that it was impossible to bring me over to popery, or ever get me to be an idolater at the mass, before the tiny god of dough:-that I could never be brought to look upon the invented superstitions, and horrible corruptions of the church of Rome, as the true religion; nor be ever persuaded to assist at the Latin service in that communion, as it must be an abomination to Christ and to God, if the gospel may be depended upon as the rule of faith: -When Burk perceived these things, he threw off the disguise, and appeared a monster instead of a man, as he was a bigot of the first order, a furious papist, (which I did not know, when we married;) and as he was by nature as cruel, as he was avaricious by principle, he began to use me in the vilest manner, and by words and deeds, did all he could to make my life a burthen to me. He was for ever abusing me in the vilest language; cursing me for a heretic for ever damned; and by blows compelling me to inform him where my money was. He has left me all[Page 492]
over blood very often, and when he found I still held out, and would not discover to him what remained of my fortune; nor, which I valued much more than my money, violate my religion, by renouncing the customs and practice of the reformed church, and joining in the sinful worship of the mass; he came to me one night with a small oak sapling, and beat me in such a manner as left me almost dead. He then went out of the house, told me he would return by twelve, and make me comply, or he would break every bone in my body. This happened at a country-seat of mine in this shire; all the servants being obliged to lie every night in an out-house, that he might have the more power over me. His excessive avarice was but one cause of this inhuman behaviour: It was the zeal of this raging bigot for his ever-cursed popery, that made him act the unrelenting inquisitor.467 I asked you, Sir, before I began my story, if you were a catholic, and as you assured me you were the very reverse, I may indulge myself a little in expressing my resentments against that religion of Satan, which the Popish doctors drew out of the bottomless pit. It is a religion formed in hell by devils, and from them brought by those arch-politicians, the mass-priests, to make the world their slaves, or rack the human race to death, by torments that would perhaps melt even devils. O bloody[Page 493]
and infernal scheme of worship! Surely there is some chosen curse, some hidden thunder in the stores of heaven, red with uncommon wrath, to blast the men, who owe their greatness to their apostasy from the religion of Christ Jesus; and to the woes and pains they lay on mankind. By the religion of modern Rome, you see in me a wife almost tortured to extinction by a holy Roman catholic husband: Nor am I the only married protestant woman, who has felt the stripes and bruises of a merciless popish companion. Thousands to be sure have suffered as well as I upon the same account, tho' none in so miserable a manner. Even fathers have lost all bowels for their children, and become the most violent persecutors, when the blessed religion of popery has been in dispute. Children, for it's sake, have destroyed their parents; and the world has been turned into a field of blood, to feed and support those dreadful slaughterers, the mass-priests; and gratify the blind and impious religious fancies of their well-taught religionists, commonly called catholics. What I have suffered gives me a true sense of popery. It has made me consider its errors and iniquities with double attention. I tremble at the thoughts of its prevailing in this land. (23) 468
[Page 494]
But as to my tragical relation, (continued Leonora:) -Being thus left by Burk in this sad situation, bleeding, and miserable[Page 495]
with pains, but still in dread of worse usage on his return; I crawled down stairs, to a small door in a back place, which opened to a private way out of the house. This was known only to myself, as it was a passage my father had made, (in case of thieves, or any villains,) from a little unfrequented cellar, by a narrow ascending arch, to a thicket in the corner of a shrubby field, at a small distance from the house. To a labyrinth made in this small grove I made what haste I could, and had not been long there, before I perceived through the trees my inhuman husband; and as he came near me, heard him say, she shall tell me where my money is, (for all she has is mine;) and worship our lady and the host, or I will burn[Page 496]
her flesh off her bones, and make her feel as many torments here, as the heretics are tortured with in everlasting pain. The sight of the monster made me tremble to so violent a degree, that I was scarcely able to proceed to the cottage of a poor woman, my sure friend, about two miles from the place I was hid in; but I did my best to creep through cross ways, and after many difficulties, and suffering much by going over ditches, I got to my resting-place. The old woman, my nurse, screeched at the sight of me, as I was sadly torn, and all over gore. Such a spectacle to be sure has seldom been seen. But by peace and proper things, I got well again in two months, and removed to this lone house, which my father had built in this spot for his occasional retirement. Here I have been for two years past, and am as happy as I desire to be: Nay vastly so, as I am now free and delivered from a monster, whose avarice and cruelty made me a spectacle to angels and men: Because, Sir, I would not reduce myself to the state of a beggar, to satisfy his insatiable love of money: nor worship his dead-woman, and bit of bread; his rabble of saints, images, relicks, and that sovereign cheat, the Pope; because I would not give up all I had, and become an idolater, as far more despicable and sinful than the antient Pagans; as the Romish ritual and devotions, are more stupid and abominable[Page 497]
than the Heathen religion; for disobedience in these respects, pains and penalties without ceasing were my appointment, and I was for some months as miserable as the damned.Such, Sir, was my fatal marriage, which I thought would be a stock of such felicities, that time only by many years could reduce to an evanescent state, and deprive me of: As Venus was at the bridal with her whole retinue; the ardent amorous boy, the sister-graces in their loose attire; Aglavia, Thalia, and Euphrosine, bright, blooming, and gay; and was attended by Youth, that wayward thing without her; was conducted by Mercury, the god of eloquence, and by Pitho, the goddess of persuasion; as all seemed pleasurable and inchanting, my young imagination formed golden scenes, and painted a happiness quite glorious and secure. But how precarious and perishing is what we mortals call felicity! Love and his mother disappeared very soon, as I have related; and to them succeeded impetuous passion, intense, raging, terrible, with all the furies in the train. The masked hero I had married was a Phalaris, a miser, a papist; a wretch who had no taste for love, no conception of virtue, no sense of charms; but to gold and popery would sacrifice every thing that is fair and laudable. Le Diable a quatre he shined in as a player, and was the Devil himself in flesh and blood.[Page 498]
Where is the rest of your gold, you bitch? with uplifted arm, was the thundering cry in my ears. You shall be a catholic, damn you, or I'll pinch off the flesh from your bones.469 Here the beautiful Leonora had done, and I wondered very greatly at her relation: Nor was her action in speaking it, and the spirit with which she talked, less surprising. With admiration I beheld her, and was not a little pleased, that I had found in my neighbourhood so extraordinary a person, and so very fine an original. This lady had some reason to abhor the word catholic, and might well be angry with popery, tho' she carried her resentment a little too far; but had the Reader seen her attitude, her energies, and the faces she made, when she mentioned the corruptions of popery, or the word husband; sure I am, it would be thought much more striking than Garrick in Richard, or Shuter in his exhibition of Old Philpot. I was greatly delighted with her, and as she was very agreeable in every thing, I generally went every second day to visit her, while I continued in Richmondshire; but this was not long, I journeyed from thence to pay my respects to Dr. Stanvil and his lady, whom I have mentioned before. And what happened there, I shall relate in the next Section: Only stop a few minutes my good Reader, to peruse the[Page 499]
translation of the tenth Satire of Juvenal; which is placed here by way of entertainment, as I said in another place, and to make good my assertion, that we know not what we would be at in our fancies and our fears.
The Tenth Satire of Juvenal.


Survey mankind, muster the herdFrom smoothest chin to deepest beard;Search ev'ry climate, view each nation,From lowest to the highest station;From Eastern to the Western Indies,From frozen Poles to th' line that singes;Scarce will you find one mortal wight,Knows good from ill, or wrong from right: * 470'Cause clouds of lust and passion blind,And bribe with interests the mind;And while they combat in our heart,Our fondness crowns the conqu'ring part.What is the thing under the sun,That we with reason seek or shun?Or justly by our judgment weigh'd,Should make us fond of, or afraid?Whate'er is luckily begun,Brings sure repentance at long-run.[Page 500]

The distant object looming great,Possest proves oft an empty cheat;And he who wins the wish'd-for prize,A trouble often dearly buys.Some for their family importune,And beg their ruin for a fortune.The courteous gods granting their prayers,Have intail'd curses on their heirs.Of wizards some inquire their doom,Greedy to know events to come,And by their over caution runOn the same fare they strove to shun:Some have petition'd to be great,And eminent in church and state.This in the war's a famous leader,T'other at bar a cunning pleader;The cause on either-side insure you,By dint of noise stun judge and jury:And if the business won't bear water,Banter and perplex the matter.But their obstrep'rous eloquenceHas fail'd ev'n in their own defence:And saving others by haranguing,Have brought themselves at last to hanging.Milo presuming on his strength,Caus'd his own destiny at length.   The greedy care of heaping wealth,Damns many a soul and ruins health,And in an apoplectic fit,Sinks them downright into the pit.How many upstarts crept from lowCondition, vast possessions show?Whose estate's audit so immenseExceeds all prodigal expence.[Page 501]

With which compare that spot of earth,To which these mushrooms owe their birth:Their manners to dad's cottage show,As Greenland whales to dolphins do.   In Nero's plotting dismal times,Riches were judg'd sufficient crimes.First swear them traitors to the state,Then for their pains share their estate.Fat forfeitures their toils reward:Poor rogues may pass without regard.Some are hook'd in for sense and wit,And some condemn'd for want of it.The over-rich Longinus dies,His bright heaps dazzled envious eyes.Neither could philosophy,Wisdom, desert, or piety,Rich Seneca from his pupil save,'Tis fit he send him to a grave,And then resume the wealth he gave.   The guards the palaces beset,For noble game they pitch their net:While from alarms and pangs of fear,Securely sleeps the cottager.If you by night shall happen late,To travel with a charge of plate;With watchful eyes and panting heart,Surpriz'd, each object makes you start:While rack'd with doubts, opprest with fear,Each bush does an arm'd thief appear:A shaken reed will terror strike,Mistaken for a brandish'd pike.Before the thief, the empty clown * 471Sings unconcern'd and travels on * 472 .[Page 502]

   With warm petitions most men plyThe gods, their bags may multiply;That riches may grow high and rank,Outswelling others in the bank.But from plain wood and earthen cups,No poison'd draught the peasant sups.Of the gold goblet take thou care,When sparkling wine's spic'd by thy heir:Then who can blame that brace of wise men,That in diff'ring moods despise men:Th' old merry lad saunters the streetsAnd laughs, and drolls at all he meets:For pastime rallies, flouts, and fools 'em,Shams, banters, mimics, ridicules 'em.The other sage in maudling wise,Their errors mourns with weeping eyes.Dull fools with ease can grin and sneer,And buffoons flout with saucy jeer.What source could constant tears supply,To feed the sluices of each eye;Or t'others merry humour make,His spleen continually to shake?[Page 503]

Could he in sober honest timesWith sharp conceit tax petty crimes:And every where amongst the rout,Find follies for his wit to flout; † 473Which proves that Gotham and gross climes,Produce prodigious wits sometimes.The joys and fears of the vain crowd,And whimp'ring tears he'd jear aloud;Wisely secure, fortune deride,By foppish mortals deified;Bid her be hang'd, and laugh at fate,When threatned at the highest rate;Whilst fools for vain and hurtful things,Pour out their prayers and offerings,Fast'ning petitions on the knees * 474 ,Of their regardless deities * 475 .   For place and power, how many men vie,Procuring mortal hate and envy;Heralds long-winded titles sound,Which the vain owners oft confound.Down go their statues in disgrace;The party hangs up in the place.In rage they break chariot triumphant,Because a knave 'fore set his rump on't:[Page 504]

Poor horses suffer for no fault,Unless by bungling workmen wrought.The founder's furnace grows red hot.Sejanus statue goes to pot:That head lately ador'd, and reckon'dIn all th' universe the second,Melted, new forms and shapes assumes,Of piss-pots, frying-pans, and spoons * 476 .The crowd o'erjoyed that Cæsar's living,Petition for a new thanksgiving;How the base rout insult to seeSejanus dragg'd to destiny † 477 ,   Would you on these conditions, Sir,Be favourite and prime minister,[Page 505]

As was Sejanus? Stand possestOf honours, power, and interest;Dispose supreme commands at will,Promote, disgrace, preserve, or kill;Have foot and horse-guards, the commandOf armies both by sea and land.Had you not better ask in prayer,To be some petty country mayor;There domineer, and when your pleasure'sCondemn light weights, break false measures;Though meanly clad in safe estate,Than chuse Sejanus robes and fate?Sejanus then, we must conclude,Courting his bane, mistook the good.Crassus and Pompey's fate of old,The truth of this sure maxim told:And his who first bow'd Rome's stiff neck,And made the world obey his beck * 478 .   The novice in his accidence,Dares pray his wit and eloquenceMay rival Roman Cicero's fame,And Greek Demosthenes' high name:Yet to both these their swelling veinOf wit and fancy prov'd their bane.No pleading dunce's jobbernowlRevenge e'er doom'd to grace a pole.   The trophies which the vanquish'd fieldDo to the glorious victors yield,Triumphant conquerors can bless,With more than human happiness:This, Roman, Grecian, and barbarian,Spurr'd to acts hazardous and daring;[Page 506]

In sweat and blood spending their days,For empty fame, and fading bays.'Tis the immoderate thirst of fameMuch more than virtue does inflame:Which none for worse or better take,But for her dower and trapping's sake.The fond ambition of a few,Many vast empires overthrew;While their atchievements with their dust,They vainly to their tombstones trust.For sepulchres like bodies lie,Swallow'd in death's obscurity * 479 .   Behold how small an urn containsThe mighty Hannibal's remains:That hero whose vast swelling mindTo Afric could not be confin'd:Nature's impediments he past,And came to Italy at last:There, after towns and battles won,He cries, comrades, there's nothing done,Unless our conqu'ring powersBreak down Rome's gates, level her towers,[Page 507]

Root up her posts, and break her chains,And knock out all opposers brains:Whilst our troops scour the city thorough,And fix our standard in Saburra * 480 .But what catastrophe of fate,Does on this famous leader wait:His conduct's baffled, army's broke,Carthage puts on the Roman yoke:Whilst flight and banishment's his fate,His ruin'd country's scorn and hate.Go, madman, act thy frantic part,Climb horrid Alps, with pains and art,Go, madman, to be with mighty reputation,The subject of a declamation † 481 .   One world's too mean, a trifling thing,For the young Macedonian king;He raves like one in banishment,In narrow craggy island pent:In one poor globe does sweat and squeeze,Wedg'd in and crampt in little-ease.But he who human race once scorn'd,And said high Jove King Philip horn'd,While manag'd oracles declareThe spark great Ammon's son and heir;At Babylon, for all his huffing,Finds ample room in narrow coffin.Man swells with bombast of inventions,When stript, death shews his true dimensions.[Page 508]

   So do we read wild Xerxes rentMount Athos from the continent,And in a frolic made a shift,To set it in the sea adrift:With ships pav'd o'er the Hellespont,And built a floating bridge upon't:Drove chariots o'er by this device,As coaches ran upon the ice.He led so numberless a rout,As at one meal drank rivers out.This tyrant we in story find,Was us'd to whip and flog the wind;Their jailor Eolus in prison,Ne'er forc'd them with so little reason:Nor could blue Neptune's godhead save him,But he with fetters must enslave him.Yet after all these roaring freaks,Routed and broke he homeward sneaks;And ferries o'er in fishing-boatThrough shoals of carcases afloat;His hopes all vanish'd, bilked of allHis gaudy dreams: See pride's just fall.   The frequent subject of our prayers,Is length of life and many years:But what incessant plagues and ills,The gulph of age with mischief fills!We can pronounce none happy, none,Till the last sand of life be run.Marius's long life was th' only reason,Of exile and Minturnian prison.Kind fate designing to befriendGreat Pompey, did a fever send,That should with favourable doom,Prevent his miseries to come:[Page 509]

But nations for his danger griev'd,Make public prayers, and he's repriev'd:Fate then that honour'd head did save,And to insulting Cæsar gave.'Tis the fond mother's constant prayer,Her children may be passing fair:The boon they beg with sighs and groans,Incessantly on marrow-bones.Yet bright Lucretia's sullen fate,Shews fair ones are not fortunate.Virginia's chance may well confute you,Good luck don't always wait on beauty.   Let not your wills then once repine,Whate'er the gods for you design.They better know than human wit,What does our exigence befit.Their wise all-seeing eyes discern,And give what best suits our concern.We blindly harmful things implore,Which they refusing, love us more.   Shall men ask nothing then? Be wise,And listen well to sound advice.Pray only that in body sound,A firm and constant mind be found:A mind no fear of death can daunt,Nor exile, prison, pains nor want:That justly reckons death to beKind author of our liberty:Banishing passion from our breast,Resting content with what's possest:That ev'ry honest action loves,And great Alcides toil approves,Above the lusts, feasts, and beds of down,Which did Sardanapalus drown.[Page 510]

This mortals to themselves may give;Virtue's the happy rule to live.Chance bears no sway where wisdom rules,An empty name ador'd by fools.Folly blind Fortune did create,A goddess, and to heaven translate. (24) 482H.


[Page 511]

[Page 512]

[Page 513]

SECTION XIV.

   Bear me, ye friendly powers, to gentler scenes,To shady bow'rs, and never-fading greens;To flow'ry meads, the vales, and mazy woods,Some sweet soft seat, adorn'd with springs and floods:Where with the muses, I may spend my days,And steal myself from life by slow decays.With age unknown to pain or sorrow blest,To the dark grave retiring as to rest;While gently with one sigh this mortal frame,Dissolving turns to ashes whence it came;And my freed soul departs without a groan;In transport wings her flight to worlds unknown.
§. 1.483 From Orton-lodge I went to Bassora, to pay my respects to Dr. Stanvil and his charming consort. I was received by them both with the greatest goodness and civility; but as before, this lady did not seem to have had any former acquaintance, one might well think from the part she acted, that she had never seen me, till the accident I have related brought me to her husband's house. I did not however even hint any thing to the contrary, but turning to the Doctor a little after my arrival, began to ask him some questions.
[Page 514]

§. 2.484 As he had an Essay on fevers in his hand, when I entred the room, I requested to know, how he accounted for the effects of Cantharides, in raising and strengthning a low trembling pulse, and driving the natural heat and efflatus of the blood outward,-in giving relief in delirious ravings, stupors, and loss of reason,-in reducing continual fevers to distinct remissions,-and in cleansing and opening the obstructed glands and lymphatics, so as to bring on the critical sweats, let loose the saliva and glandular secretions, and bring down the thick soluble urine? How does blistering, so happily brought in by the physical bully of this age, Dr. Radcliff, so wonderfully cool and dilute the blood? It seems to me somewhat strange.§. 3.485 Dr. Stanvil replied: It is easily accounted for. The Spanish fly, that extremely hot and perfectly caustic insect, is stocked with a subtile, active, and extremely pungent salt, which enters the blood upon the application of the blister, and passes with it through the several glandular strainers and secretory ducts. This stimulating force of the fly's salt, occasions the pain felt in making the water with a blister, (which may be taken off by a thin emulsion made with the pulp of roasted apples in milk and water), and causes[Page 515]
the liberal, foul and stinking sweats, while the Epispastic is on.This being evident, it is plain from thence, that the penetrating salts of the fly, that is, the volatile pungent parts of the cantharides, act in the blood by dissolving, attenuating, and rarifying the viscid cohesions of the lymph and serum; by stimulating the nervous coats of the vessels, throw off their stagnating viscidities, and by cleansing the glands, and forcing out the coagulated serum, restore the circulation and freedom of lymph from the arteries to the veins; opening, scouring and cleansing at the same time, the expurgatory glands.486 In short, as common cathartics purge the guts, and cleanse and throw off their clammy, stagnating, and obstructing contents, by rarifying and dissolving the viscid cohesions of the fluids, and by stimulating the solids; so do the active salts of the fly penetrate the whole animal machine, become a glandular lymphatic purge, and perform the same thing in all the small straining conveying pipes, that common purgatives effect in the intestines: and as by this means, all the sluices and outlets of the glandular secretions are opened, the cantharides must be cooling, diluting, and refrigerating in their effects to the greatest degree, tho' so very hot, caustic, and pungent in themselves. So wonderfully[Page 516]
has the great Creator provided for his creature, man; in giving him not only a variety of the most pleasing food; but so fine a medicine, (among a thousand others) as the Spanish fly, to save him from the destroying fever, and restore him to health again. It is not by a discharge of serum, as too many doctors imagine, that a blister relieves, for five times the quantity may be brought off by bleeding, vomiting, or purging; but the benefit is intirely owing to that heating, attenuating, and pungent salt of this fly, (and this fly only), which the divine power and goodness has made a lymphatic purgative, or glandular cathartic for the relief of man, in this fatal and tormenting malady. Vast is our obligation to God for all his providential blessings. Great are the wonders that he doth for the children of men.§. 4.487 Here the Doctor dropt off his chair, just as he had pronounced the word men, and in a moment became a lifeless sordid body. His death was occasioned by the blowing up of his stomach, as I found upon opening his body, at the request of his lady. -When the blood which is confined within the vessels of the human body, is agitated with a due motion, it maintains life; but if there be a stagnation of it in an artery, it makes an aneurism; in a vein, a varix;[Page 517]
under the skin, a bruise; in the nose, it may excite an hæmorrhage; in the vessels of the brain, an apoplexy; in the lungs, an hæmoptoe; in the cavity of the thorax, an empyema; and when it perfectly stagnates there, immediate death.An animal (observe me Reader) must live so long as this fluid circulates through the conical pipes in his body, from the lesser base in the centre, the heart, to the greater in the extreme parts; and from the capillary evanescent arteries, by the nascent returning veins to the heart again; but when this fluid ceases to flow through the incurved canals, and the velocities are no longer in the inverse duplicate ratio of the inflated pipes, then it dies. The animal has done for ever with food and sex; the two great principles which move this world, and produce not only so much honest industry, but so many wars and fightings, such cruel oppressions, and that variety of woes we read of in the tragical history of the world. Even one of them does wonders. Cunnus teterrimi belli causa. And when united, the force is irresistible.But as I was saying, when this fluid ceases to flow, the man has done with lust and hunger. The pope, the warriour, and the maid, are still. The machine is at absolute rest, that is, in perfect insensibility: And the soul of it is removed to the vestibulum or porch of[Page 518]
the highest holy place; in a vehicle, (says Wollaston, and Burnet of the Charter-house), as needful to our contact with the material system; -as it must exist with a spiritual body to be sure, (says the Rev. Mr. Caleb Fleming, in his Survey of the search after souls), because of its being present with its Saviour, beholding his glory, who is in human form and figure, which requires some similitude in the vehicle, in order to the more easy and familiar society and enjoyment. Or, as the learned Master of Peter-house, Dr. Edmund Law, and Dr. Sherlock, Bishop of London, informs us, it remains insensible for ages, till the consummation of all things;-from the dissolution of the body, is stupid, senseless, and dead asleep till the resurrection.Such was the case of my friend, Dr. Stanvil; he dropt down dead at once. A rare-faction in his stomach, by the heat and fermentation of what he had taken the night before at supper, destroyed him. That concave viscus, or bowel, which is seated in the abdomen below the diaphragm, I mean the stomach, was inflamed, and as the descending trunk of the aorta passes down between it and the spine, that is, between the stomach and back part of the ribs, the inflation and distention of the bowel compressed and constringed the transverse section of the artery aorta, in its descending branch, and by lessening[Page 519]
it, impeded the descent of the blood from the heart, and obliged it to ascend in a greater quantity than usual to the head. By this means, the parts of the head were distended and stretched with blood, which brought on an apoplexy, and the operation upward being violent, the equilibrium was intirely broken, and the vital tide could flow no more. This I found on opening the body. I likewise observed that, exclusive of the compressure of the descending trunk of the artery aorta, the muscular coats of the stomach were stretched, inflated, and distended; and of consequence, the blood-vessels which enter into the constitution of those muscles, were stretched, dilated, and turgid with blood, and therefore the blood could not be driven forward in the course of its circulation with its natural and due velocity, but must prove an obstacle to the descent of the blood from the heart, and oblige almost the whole tide to move upwards. This, and the constringing the aorta, at its orifice or transverse section, between the costæ and the bowel called the stomach, is enough, I assure you, Reader, to knock up the head of a giant, and put a stop to all the operations of nature. Thus fell this gentleman in the 32d year of his age.
[Page 520]

§. 5.488 Whether the learned Dr. Edmund Law (25) 489 , and the great Dr. Sherlock bishop of London (26) 490 , be right, in asserting, the human soul sleeps like a bat or a swallow, in some cavern for a period, till the last trumpet awakens the hero of Voltaire and Henault, I mean Lewis XIV. to answer for his treachery, falshood, and cruelty; or, whether that excellent[Page 521]
divine Mr. Fleming has declared the truth, in maintaining in his late survey, that the conscious scheme was the doctrine of Christ and his apostles; this however is certain, that my friend Stanvil is either now present with his Saviour, beholding his glory, in a vehicle resembling the body of our Lord; as the dissenter just mentioned teaches;-or if, according to the author of the Considerations on the state of the world, (Archdeacon Law) and my Lord of London, in his Sermons, the scriptures take no account of an intermediate state in death, and we shall not awake or be made alive until the day of judgment; then will my friend have eternal life at the resurrection; he was as worthy a man as ever lived; an upright christian deist, whose life was one unmixed scene of virtue and charity. He did not believe a tittle of our priestly mysteries, or regard that religion which skulks behind the enormous columns of consecrated opinions; but, as christianity was revealed from heaven, to bring mankind to the worship of the one supreme God and governour of the world, and lead them into the paths of humanity, he rejected the superstition of Monks and their disciples, and in regard to the voice of reason, and the words of the gospel, adored only the supreme Being, manifested his love of God by keeping the commandments, and his love of his neighbour, by doing all the good in his power. Such a man[Page 522]
was Dr. John Stanvil. If men of fortune would form their manners on such a model, virtue by degrees would spread through the inferior world, and we should soon be free from superstition.§. 6.Having mentioned the sleeping and the conscious schemes, I would here examine these opinions, and shew why I cannot think, a dead inconscious silence is to be our case till the consummation of the ages; as a happiness so remote would weaken I believe the energy and influence of our conceptions and apprehensions, in respect of faith, hope, and expectations. To curb desire, or suffer severely here, for the sake of truth and virtue, and then cease to be, perhaps for ten thousand years to come, or much longer; (for there is not any thing in revelation, or an appearance out of it, that can incline a rational man to think he is near the day of judgment or general resurrection); this seems to be an obstacle in the progress of the pilgrim: And therefore, why I rather think, we step immediately from the dark experiences of this first state, to a blissful consciousness in the regions of day, and by death are fixed in an eternal connexion with the wise, the virtuous, and the holy: -This, I say, I would in the next place proceed to treat of, by considering what the scriptures reveal in relation to death, and what is most probable[Page 523]
in reason; but that it is necessary to proceed in my story.§. 7.491 When the beautiful Mrs. Stanvil saw her husband was really dead, and had paid that decent tribute of tears to his memory, which was due to a man, who left her in his will all his estates, real and personal, to be by her disposed of as she pleased, she sent for me to her chamber the next morning, and after a long conversation with her, told me, she could now own who she was, and instead of acting any longer by the directions of her head, let me know from her heart, that she had still the same regard for me, as when we travelled away together from her father's house in the West, to the North of England: And if I would stay at Bassora where I was, but for three months she must be away, she would then return, and her fortune and hand I might command. This I readily consented to, and when the funeral was over she departed. For the time agreed on, I continued in the house, and to a day she was punctual in her return. We were married the week after, and I was even happier than I had ever been before; which must amount to a felicity inconceivably great indeed. Six months we resided at her seat, and then thought it best to pay a visit to my father in Ireland. We arrived at Bagatrogh Castle in the western extremity of that island,[Page 524]
in the spring of the year 1735, and were most kindly received.My father longed to see me, and was very greatly rejoiced at my coming; but I found him in a dying way, paralytic all over, and scarcely able to speak. To my amazement, he was become as strict a unitarian as myself, and talked with abhorrence of Athanasian religion. This was owing, he said, to my MS. Remarks I left with him on Lord Nottingham's Answer to Mr. Whiston's Letter to his Lordship; which MS. of mine he had often read over when I was gone, and thereby was thoroughly convinced, on considering my reasoning, that christians are expresly commanded, upon pain of God's displeasure, to worship one supreme God, and him only, in the name and through the mediation of Jesus Christ. Upon this religious practice as a fundamental rule he had at last fixed. He saw it was the safe way, and would never depart from it. He told me, the parson of his parish, a right orthodox divine, who had been his chum in the university, and very intimate with him, was greatly troubled at this change in his sentiments, and said many severe things; but he no more minded the Athanasians now, than he did the idolatrous papists. This gave me great pleasure, and recompensed me for what I had suffered on a religious account. I gave thanks to[Page 525]
God that truth through my means had prevailed. * 492The CONCLUSION.And now, my candid Reader, to take my leave of you at this time, I have only to observe, that as this volume is full large, I cannot add my intended XVth section, but only say in a short summary, that soon after my arrival at Bagatrogh Castle, my father's seat on Mall-Bay, on the coast of Galway in Ireland, the old gentleman died, and as in a passion, he had irrevocably settled the greatest part of his large estate on a near relation of mine, and had it not in his power to leave me more than a hundred a year, a little ready money, and a small ship, which lay before his door in the Bay, he descended to the grave in great trouble, with many tears. Like old Isaac over Esau, he wept bitterly, and wished in vain, that it was in his power to undo what he had done.As soon as my father was buried, I returned to England with my wife, in the little vessel, now my own, which lay in the Bay,[Page 526]
and immediately after landing, and laying up my ship in a safe place, we went to Bassora again, there lived for one year as happy as two mortals could be; but in the beginning of the year 1736, she died of the small pox, and to divert my mind, it came into my head to go to sea, and make some voyages in my own little ship, which was an excellent one for strength and sailing, tho' but a sloop of twenty-five tons. I went captain myself, and had an ingenious young gentleman, one Jackman, for my mate, who had been in the East Indies several times, six good hands, and two cabbin-boys. Every thing necessary, convenient, and fit, books, mathematical instruments, &c. we took on board, and weighed anchor the 5th of July, 1736.We went on shore at the Canary Islands, the Cape de Verd Islands, and other places. We passed the Sun in 15 degrees North latitude, and from that time standing South, crossed the Line; the heats intolerable, and the musquitoes and bugs insufferable. We soon lost sight of the Northern star, and had the Crosiers and Magellan clouds in view. In three months time we anchored at St. Catharine's on the coast of Brazil. The 2d of December we saw the Streights la Maine, that run betwixt Terra del fuego and Staten, and is the boundary between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans; but instead of venturing into[Page 527]
them, and hazarding our lives among the impetuous blasts and waves which sweep round Cape Horn, (as Admiral Anson did the 7th of March 1741, two months too late, by the fault of the ministry, in his way to the South Seas), we kept out at sea to the East of Staten-land, and ran to the latitude 64, before we stood to the Westward. The weather was fine, as it was then the height of summer, to wit, in December and January. All the occurrences in this course, the discovery we made in the latitude above-mentioned of an inhabited island, governed by a young Queen, and what appeared and happened there, and in our run from thence to Borneo and Asia, round the globe; and from China to Europe, on our return home; with the events we afterwards met with, and the observations I made in other places, the Reader will find in a book called, The Voyages and Travels of Dr. Lorimer.Nine years of my life was spent in travelling and sailing about, and at last I returned to rest and reflect, and in rational amusements pass the remainder of my time away. I retired to a little flowery retreat I had purchased within a few miles of London, that I might easily know what was doing in this hemisphere, while I belong to it; and in the midst of groves and streams, fields and[Page 528]
lawns, have lived as happily ever since, as a mortal can do on this Planet.Dr. Cheyne (by the way I observe,) calls it a ruined Planet, in his wild posthumous book; (27) 493 (a notion he had from his master, enthusiastic Law), (28) 494 but from what I have seen on three continents, and in traversing[Page 529]
the ocean round the globe, from West to East, and from the Southern latitude 64, to 66 North; a Planet in reality so divinely made and perfect, that one can never sufficiently adore and praise an infinitely wise God for such a piece of his handy work: -A world so wisely contrived, so accurately made, as to demonstrate the Creator's being and attributes, and cause every rational mortal to acknowledge that Jehovah is our God, and fear and obey so great and tremendous a Being-the power and glory of our God.But as I was saying, after my return, I bought a little spot and country-house, where I might rest from my labours, and easily[Page 530]
know what is doing in this hemisphere:- how gloriously our most gracious and excellent king endeavours to advance the felicity of his people, and promote the honour and dignity of Great Britain:-how indefatigable the present ministry is in pursuing such measures, as demonstrate they have the interest of their country at heart; as evince how well they supply the deficiencies of their predecessors in office:-and how zealously the combined wisdom of the whole legislature acts for the preservation of the Britannic constitution, and the liberties and properties of the people; that the ends of the late war may be answered, and the peace at last give universal satisfaction.To hear such news; and know what France and Spain are doing;-and what the renowned Anti-Sejanus is writing; (Anti-Sejanus who deserves the curse and hatred of the whole community * 495 ) I purchased a retirement near the capital; a spot surrounded with woods and streams, plants and flowers; and over which a silence hovers, that gives a relish to still life, and renders it a contrast to the busy, bustling, envious crowds of men.Here I sat down at last, and have done with hopes and fears for ever.
[Page 531]


   "Here grant me, heav'n, to end my peaceful days,And pass what's left of life in studious ease;Here court the muses, whilst the sun on high,Flames in the vault of heav'n, and fires the sky;Soon as Aurora from her golden bow'rs,Exhales the fragrance of the balmy flow'rs,Reclin'd in silence on a mossy bed,Consult the learned volumes of the dead;Fall'n realms and empires in description view,Live o'er past times, and build whole worlds anew;Oft from the bursting tombs, in fancy raiseThe sons of Fame, who liv'd in antient days;Oft listen till the raptur'd soul takes wings,While Plato reasons, or while Homer sings.   Or when the night's dark wings this globe surround,And the pale moon begins her solemn round;When night has drawn her curtains o'er the plain,And silence reassumes her awful reign;Bid my free soul to starry orbs repair,Those radiant orbs that float in ambient air,And with a regular confusion stray,Oblique, direct, along the aerial way:Fountains of day! stupendous orbs of light!Which by their distance lessen to the sight:And if the glass you use, t'improve your eyes,Millions beyond the former millions rise.For no end were they made? Or, but to blazeThrough empty space, and useless spend their rays?Or ought we not with reason to reply,Each lucid point which glows in yonder sky,Informs a system in the boundless space,And fills with glory its appointed place:[Page 532]

With beams, unborrow'd, brightens other skies,And worlds, to thee unknown, with heart and life supplies.   But chiefly, O my soul, apply to loftier themes,The opening heav'ns, and angels rob'd with flames:Read in the sacred leaves how time began,And the dust mov'd, and quicken'd into man;Here through the flow'ry walks of Eden rove,Court the soft breeze, or range the spicy grove;There tread on hallow'd ground where angels trod,And rev'rend patriarchs talk'd as friends with God;Or hear the voice to slumb'ring prophets giv'n,Or gaze on visions from the throne of heav'n.   Thus lonely, thoughtful may I run the raceOf transient life, in no unuseful ease:Enjoy each hour, nor as it fleets away,Think life too short, and yet too long the day;Of right observant, while my soul attendsEach duty, and makes heav'n and angels friends:Can welcome death with Faith's expecting eye,And mind no pangs, since Hope stands smiling by;Nor studious how to make a longer stay,Views heav'nly plains and realms of brighter day;Shakes off her load, and wing'd with ardent love,Spurns at the earth, and springs her flight above,Soaring thro' air to realms where angels dwell,Pities the shrieking friends, and leaves the lessning bell."



THE END.

NOTES
1 [ The following list of numbered, thematic sections is not consistent with the numbered divisions appearing in the text which have been captured as chapter divisions. ]
2 A Reflection.3 Went to the University in 17204 A College-life.5 A Course of Reading in a College.6 Of Mr. Locke's Essay.7 Natural Philosophy.8 Moral Philosophy.9 Of Revealed Religion.10 Of false religion.11 Cosmography and Mathematicks.12 Method of reading History.13 A reflection History.14 A Reflection on Government and Religion.15 [1] (1) To the plain and satisfactory method of seeking for the faith in the sacred books, there are many adversaries and many objections raised. There are (says a great man) a very numerous body of Christians who know no other guides but the living guides of the present church; and acknowledge no other faith, for the faith once delivered to the saints, but that which is now delivered to them by their present rulers, as such. To establish this point, the greater part of these lay down the infallibility of the present church, and of every man of the past ages, through whose mouth, or by whose hands, the present traditions of faith have descended to them. And this, indeed, would be a very good method, if that single proof of infallibility could be proved. But this is a point so gross, and so utterly void of all proof, that a great body of the Christian world, have broke loose from the power of this monster, and declared for the New Testament itself, as the only guide or rule of faith; the only deliverer of the faith to us of later ages. When this comes however to be put in practice, too many of the same persons who set the scriptures up as the only guide, turn round on a sudden, and let us know that they mean by it, not these sacred original writings themselves, but the interpretations, or sense, put upon them by our spiritual superiors, to which we are bound to submit, and put under an obligation to find that to be the truth which is taught by these leaders. But to this we reply with reason, that though we ought to pay a regard of serious attention to those whose business it is to find out and dispense the truth, and shew the respect of a due examination of what they affirm; yet we must not yield the submission due only to infallibility. It is our glory not to submit to the voice of any man. We must reserve that regard, for God, and for Christ, in matters of faith once delivered to the Saints. Others, again, of the reformed, tell us, that the surer way of knowing what was delivered near eighteen hundred years ago, is to take the original faith from the Councils and Fathers, grave and good men, who met and writ for the settling of the faith. -And to this we answer, that these wise and good men cannot give so good an account of the faith contained in the original books as the books themselves which contain it. To give an example to the purpose. If we would know the doctrine of the Church of England at the reformation, it is not the writings of any particular divines, many years after that period, that we must consult; or any assembly of them; but the authentic acts, and declarations, and sermons, made and recorded at the time; for many of the doctrines thought essential at the reformation, have been since changed by gradual alterations;-by explainers using their own stile and manner of expression, and introducing their own scheme of philosophy, and judgment in commenting, into the scheme of doctrine to be explained. This produces great variation from what was once settled. What was once esteemed fundamental is thereby altered. - Let this be applied to the first Christian writers, after the Apostles were departed, and as their language and philosophy were various, and they differed from one another, great variations must creep into the doctrines delivered by them. It follows then, that nothing but what is recorded in the first original books themselves can be firm and stable to us in points of faith. In the original books only we can find the faith, without that confusion and darkness, which human explications and additions have brought in by way of light.16 The story of Harriot Noel.17 A Country Seat.18 A Conversation with Miss Noel, in relation to the Language of Adam, and the Primævity of the Hebrew Tongue.19 [2] (2) The captivity began at Nebuzaradan's taking and burning the city and temple of Jerusalem, and sending Zedekiah, the last King, in chains, to Nebuchadnezzar, who ordered his children to be butchered before his face, his eyes to be put out, and then thrown into a dungeon, where he died. This happened before our Lord 588 years; after the flood, 1766; of the world 3416.20 [3] (3) Shinaar comprehends the plains of Chaldea or Babylonia in Asia; and the men of Shinaar were the first colony that Noah sent out from Ararat, the mountains of Armenia, where the Ark rested after the flood, to settle in the grand plains of Babylonia, 1200 miles from Ararat. This was in the days of Peleg, 240 years after the flood, when the eight had encreased to sixty thousand; which made a remove of part of them necessary.21 [4] Longevity of the Antediluvians. (4) The extraordinary longevity of the Antideluvians is accounted utterly incredible by many moderns; but it did not appear so unnatural to the early ages of Paganism. -Let no one (says Josephus) upon comparing the lives of the antients with our lives, and with the few years which we now live, think that what we have said of them is false. I have for witness to what I have said, all those who have written antiquities, both among the Greeks and Barbarians. For even Manetho, who wrote the Egyptian History; and Berosus, who collected the Chaldean Monuments; and Mochus and Hostiæus; and besides these, Hieronymus the Egyptian, and those who composed the Phœnician history, agree to what I here say. Hesiod also, and Hecutæus, and Hallanicus, and Acusilaus; and besides these, Ephorus and Nicolaus of Damascus, relate that the antients lived 1000 years. The antient Latin authors likewise confirm the sacred history in this branch: and Varro, in particular, made an enquiry, What the reason was that the antients lived a 1000 years. See a continuation of this 4th note in the appendix.22 A Description of Miss Noel's grotto.23 The Temple of Tranquility and a remarkable Inscription.24 [5] (5) I had once a sweet little country house in the neighbourhood of those ladies, and used to be often at their gardens and grottos. Mrs. Crafton had the finest shells, but her grott was dull and regular, and had no appearance of nature in the formation. She was a pious, plain, refined lady, but had not a fancy equal to the operation required in a shell-house. The excellent, the polite, the well-bred, the good and unfortunate Mrs. O'Hara had a glorious fancy. She was a genius, and had an imagination that formed a grotto wild and charming as Calypso's. Her fancy did likewise form the garden (in which the grotto stood, near the margin of a flood) into a paradise of delights. Many a pleasing, solitary hour, have I passed in this charming place; and all at last I saw in ruins; the garden in disorder-and every fine shell torn from the grotto. Such are the changes and chances of this first state; changes wisely designed by providence as warnings not to set up our rest here: that we may turn our hearts from this world, and with all our might labour for that life which shall never perish. What ruined Mrs. O'Hara's grotto deprived me of my little green and shady retreat. Charles O'Hara, this lady's husband, a strange man, from whom I rented my pretty farm and to whom I had paid a fine to lower the rent, had mortgaged it, unknown to me, to the famous Damer, and that powerful man swallowed all. All I had there was seized for arrears of interest due of Mr. O'Hara, and as I was ever liable to distraining, I took my leave of Fingall.25 Fine shells. The Sea Trumpet.26 The Admiral.27 The Crown Imperial.28 The Hebrew Letter.29 The white Voluta.30 The Butterfly.31 The Tulip Cylinder.32 The thorny Woodcock.33 The Harp.34 The Argus.35 The concha of Venus.36 The Hammer Oyster.37 An image of Epictetus and a remarkable Legend.38 Old Mr. Noel's character.39 A second conversation with Miss Noel; relating to the Miracle at Babel, and the Confusion of tongues.40 * The words men of are not in the Greek.41 [6] (6) To this stammering or uncouth pronunciation of barbarous dialects the prophet Ezekiel refers, 36. 3. Ye are made to come upon the lip of the tongues: that is, Ye are become a bye-word even in the heathen gabble, among the babling nations where ye are in captivity. -The author of Letter and Spirit says, the word barbarous, used in so many languages (with only their respective different determinations) for persons of strange or foreign tongues, is a monument of the great confusion at Babel; this word being a corruption of the reduplicate Chaldee word Balbel, by changing the l in each place into r. - Some say, the word in the other languages, is derived from the Arabic Barbar, to murmur like some beast. - Scaliger defines it, Pronunciatio vitiosa & insuavis, literasque male exprimens, blæsorum balborumque more: which was hitting upon the truth as to part of the original manner of the confusion. Indeed Blæsus and Balbus, in Latin, are both derived, in like manner from Bal, and, Balbel. -The Welsh has preserved a noble word for this barbarism of confused language in their compounded term Baldwridd; which is a plain compound of the Hebrew Bal, and Dahar; without any other deflection from the original Hebrew, than that of changing the b in the latter member of the word (Dabar) into the Welch w, a letter of the same organ. Moreover from their said Baldwridd, and Das, we again derive our Balderdash; which therefore signifies strictly-A heap of confused, or barbarous words like those of the gabble of dialects, originally gendered at Babel. See Letter and Spirit (ch. 11.) by Mr. Holloway, a Hutchinsonian. It is very remarkable, that this learned gentleman says, he had been long of Hutchinson's mind, as to a confusion of confessions, and not of tongues; but on weighing the matter, is now of another opinion: p. 115. Therefore, Hutchinson not infallible: out for once: and, as Dr. Sharp well observes, this may be an earnest of deserting Hutchinson in other points of his new hypothesis. See Dr. Sharp's two discourses on the Hebrew tongue and character against Mr. Holloway. -His two discourses on Elohim, and defence. -And his three discourses on Cherubim. -The Hutchinsonians lay the stress of their hypothesis on the Biblical Hebrew, being the language of Adam in Paradise: And if this be taken from them, they are left in a poor way.42 [7] (7) The great Samuel Bochart was born at Rouen in 1599, and died suddenly in the academy at Caen, Monday the 16th of May 1667, aged 68. He was the minister of the reformed church in that town. -His principal works are his Phaleg and Canaan; works that shew an amazing erudition, and ought to be well read by every gentleman: you should likewise have his Hierozoïcon, or history of animals mentioned in the sacred books. It is a good supplement to his scripture geography. His sermons and dissertations are also very valuable. Brieux writ the following fine epitaph on him: Scilicet hæc cuique est data sors æquissima, talis    Ut sit mors, qualis vita peracta fuit. Musarum in gremio teneris qui vixit ab annis.    Musarum in gremio debuit ille mori.
43 [8] (8) As this song is a short imitation of the 19th Ode of the first book of Horace, it is worth your while, Reader, to see how Mr. Francis has done the whole. I will here set down a few lines: Urit me Glyceræ nitor    Splendentis pario marmore purius: Urit grata protervitas,    Et vultus nimium lubricus aspici. Which lines are imitated in the first verse of the above song, and a part of the second; and the ingenious Mr. Francis renders them in the following manner- Again for Glycera I burn, And all my long forgotten flames return. As Parian marble pure and bright,    The shining maid my bosom warms; Her face too dazling for the sight,    Her sweet coquetting-how it charms! In me tota ruens Venus    Cyprum deseruit- Of which the third verse of the song is an imitation: - Mr. Francis translates in the following manner- Whole Venus rushing through my veins, No longer in her favourite Cyprus reigns. And- Hic vivum mihi cespitem, hic    Verbenas, pueri, ponite thuraque Bimi cum patera meri:    Mactatâ veniet lænior hostiâ: Which lines are imitated in the fourth verse of the song-Mr. Francis translates as follows- Here let the living altar rise,    Adorn'd with every herb and flower; Here flame the incense to the skies,    And purest wines libation pour; Due honours to the Goddess paid,    Soft sinks to willing love the yielding maid. You see in this the difference between a translation and an imitation.44 Miss Noel's character.45 A reflexion on the death of Miss Noel.46 Left the University, and went down to see my father in the country, and had a very miserable reception.47 A religious dispute with my Father.48 [9] (9) The Reader will find this apology in the appendix to this life. By scripture and argument, without any regard to the notions of the fathers, I there endeavour to prove, that God the Father, the beginning and câuse of all things, is One Being, infinite in such a manner, that his infinity is an infinity of fulness as well as immensity; and must be not only without limits, but also without diversity, defect or interruption: and of consequence, his Unity so true and real, that it will admit of no diversity or distinction of persons:-that as to the Lord Jesus Christ, he was the servant chosen of this tremendous God, to redeem mankind; but his holy soul so far in perfection above Adam or any of his posterity, and possessed so much a greater share of the indwelling of the divine life and nature than any other creature, that he might, compared to us, with a just figure of speech, be called God.49 May 1, 1725. I left my father's house.50 [10] (10) The Conniving-House, (as the gentlemen of Trinity called it in my time, and long after) was a little public house, kept by Jack Macklean, about a quarter of a mile beyond Rings-end, on the top of the beach, within a few yards of the sea. Here we used to have the finest fish at all times; and in the season, green peas, and all the most excellent vegetables. The ale here was always extraordinary, and every thing the best; which, with its delightful situation, rendered it a delightful place of a summer's evening. Many a delightful evening have I passed in this pretty thatched house with the famous Larrey Grogan, who played on the bag-pipes extreme well; dear Jack Lattin, matchless on the fiddle, and the most agreeable of companions; that ever charming young fellow, Jack Wall, the most worthy, the most ingenious, the most engaging of them, the son of councellor Maurice Wall; and many other delightful fellows; who went in the days of their youth to the shades of eternity. When I think of them and their evening songs-We will go to Johnny Macklean's-to try if his ale be good or not, etc. and that years and infirmities begin to oppress me- What is life!51 My departure from Rings end, and what happened at sea.52 The case of Dean Whaley.53 The Case of Miss Melnoth.54 The case of some officers in the storm.55 The cases of Gavan and Henley.56 Henley's character.57 Gavan's character.58 The passengers land, and divide into several companies, May 10, 1725.59 The story of Whitwell, the mate of the Skinner and Jenkins.60 An uncommon scene of life.61 Miss Melmoth's character.62 Miss Melmoth and part, June 2, 1725.63 A journey among the hills, in that part of Stainmore, which belongs to Westmorland. 1725, June 8.64 A surprizing meeting65 The story of Jack Price.66 A conversation.67 An account of Mrs. Price of Stanemore.68 The nature, end, and design of christianity, considered in a conversation.69 The state of religion from the creation to this time.70 [11] (11) Ex ea re tum privatim tum publicè, lignea virilia thyrsis alligata per eam solemnitatem gestabant, fuit enim Phallus vocatum, membrum virile. Schædius de diis. p. 130.71 [12] (12) Heraclides Syracusius libro de vetustis & sancitis moribus scribit apud Syracusios in perfectis thermophoriis, ex sesamo & melle fingi pudenda muliebria, quæ per ludos & spectacula circumferebantur, & vocabantur Mylli. Athenæi. Deipnos. l. 14. p. 647.72 [13] The ranges in the temple. (13) This is taken notice of by the prophet Jeremiah. -"" Herodotus explains this passage of the Prophet. "" Herodot. l. 1. c. 196. 198. and 199. Strabo likewise gives us an account to the same purpose. l. 16. p. 745. -And Justin gives this reason for this custom,-lest Venus alone should appear lascivious. Ne sola impudica videretur. l. 18. c. 5.- As to the breaking of the woman's cord, Dr. Hyde says, their lower garments were tied with small and weak cords made of rushes, qui ad congrediendum erant frangendi. -Purchas pilgr. l. 1. c. 12. p. 65. confirms this notion; having seen the thing practised in his travels in the east. But Grotius on Baruch says, the meaning was, the women had cords given them, as a token that they were under the vow of prostitution, which when they had performed, the cord was properly said to be broken; for every vow may be called vinculum, or a cord. As I take it, the case was both as Hyde and Grotius relate it. I was in company with a physician, who had spent many years of his life in the East, and he assured me, he had seen both circumstances practised in the kingdom of Cranganor. As to the woman's burning incense or bran for a perfume, it was the custom before coition, by way of charm and incentive. When a Babylonian and his wife had a mind to correspond, they always first lit up the fuming pan, imagining it improved the passion. So in the Pharmaceutria of Theocritus. p. 33. we see Simætha is using her Incantation, nunc furfures sacrificabo, ??t????, the word made use of in Jeremiah's Epistle. -And as if all this had not been lust enough in their religion, it was farther declared in their Ritual, that those were best qualified for the sacerdotal function, who were born of mothers who conceived them of their own sons. In respect of human sacrifices, if you would have a full account of them, consult the following autors, and you will find that the Canaanites were far from being the only Pagans who were guilty of this unnatural barbarity -Selden de diis Syris. Segort. 1. c. 6. and all the autors he quotes. Grotius on Deut. 18. Isaac Vos. de orig. Idol. l. 2. c. 5. Dion. Vossius on Maimon de Idol. c. 6. Lud. Vives notes on St. Aug. de Civit. Dei. l. 7. c. 19. -Ouzelius & Elmenhorstius notes on Min. Fœlix. Spencer de Leg. Hebr. l. 2. c. 13. And Fabricius, Bibliographia. c. 9.73 After the flood 428. Bef. Chr. 1920.74 Bp. Sherlock on prophecy, well observes, that two covenants were given to Abraham, one a temporal covenant, to take place in the land of Canaan-the other, a covenant of better hope, to be performed in a better country. p. 134.75 My departure from Lasco in Stanemore, a farther description of this wild and solitary part of the world.76 A reflection.77 An account of an extraordinary effusion of water from a mountain.78 The cause of the eruption of water from the inside of the mountain, and its sudden encrease.79 The origin of earthquakes.80 * Nov. 1. 1755.81 A reflexion on second causes, and the Deity's being not only at the head of nature, but in every part of it.82 The periodical motions of the waters of the sea, owing to immaterial power.83 Earthquakes the effect of immaterial causes.84 An account of muscular motion; and that it is caused by a continued act of the Deity.85 [14] (14) That even spontaneous motion is performed by the divine power, is proved in the first part of a most excellent book, called, An Enquiry into the Nature of the Human Soul. -I shall only observe here, that motion is spontaneous, as it is begun and ended by the living Being itself, without physical necessity: but it is above the power and knowledge of the spontaneous Being, as it is performed mechanically: the motive power is immediately impressed by the Creator, who is the only mover, as well as the first mover. How adorable is this condescension! the Creator exerts his power in consequence of the sponteneity of his living creatures! -But is not this low work for the Supreme Lord of heaven and earth, says the mechanical reasoner? No. Lowness of work is not applicable to the Creator of all things. He is as much the Creator of the meanest insect, as of the highest intelligence. It is his perpetual power, exerted in cohesion, that keeps all the parts of matter in the bodies of living creatures together. Philosophy cannot be hurt by admitting his power. His omnipotence is displayed to our senses in the most despicable weed of the field as well as in the bright rolling orbs of heaven. In calling such things low work, we forget what infinite power implies, and what infinite goodness prompts.86 [15] (15) If it should be asked,-why was such an intricate structure of such materials employed, or such a laborious method contrived, by the organization of dead matter, if it no way serves to produce motion, but rather consumes the force impressed? the answer is, that this consuming mechanism is no inconvenience in nature, if we consider who renews the motive power. We are forced to be frugal of our little power: but this is not applicable to the Deity. The governing power of the Deity is creating power. Beings made up of matter and spirit require such a supplying power, and in the various work God instructs his rational Beings, and displays his omnipotence in wisdom and action.87 An extraordinary loch on the top of a high mountain.88 The cause of an unfathomable loch on the top of the mountain.89 Remarks on the deluge.90 The means which drained off the waters of the deluge from the earth.91 [16] (16.)Eldine-Hole in Derbyshire is a mile south of Mamtorr, and 4 miles east of Buxton. It is a perpendicular gulph or chasm, which I tried to fathom more than once, and found it by my line, and by the measure of sound (at the rate of 16 feet one twelfth in one second the measure Dr. Halley allows near the earth for the descent of heavy bodies), to be 1266 feet, or 422 yards down to the water; but how deep the water is cannot be known. I suppose it reaches to the abyss. This chasm is forty yards long above ground, and ten over at its broadest part: but from the day there is a sloping descent of forty yards to the mouth of the horrible pit, and this is only four yards long and one and a half broad. Two villains who were executed at Derby not long ago, confessed at the gallows, that they threw a poor traveller into this dreadful gulph, after they had robbed him.92 The journey in Stanemore continued.93 An account of an assemblage of black columnar marble.94 An account of a burning spring.95 Another loch on the top of a high mountain, and a swallow in the bottom.96 An amazing arch thro' a mountain in a delightful spot of ground.97 An extraordinary passage thro' the mountains.98 1725.99 A reflexion on the completion of every wish the moment it is formed.100 1725.101 1725.102 [17] (17) In the 2d volume of Familiar Letters between the characters in David Simple, the reader will find an excellent story in relation to wishing, which the ingenious female writer calls a fragment of a Fairy Tale. p. 225-275: and concludes it in the following sensible manner. -The good Fairy came often to visit me, and confirmed me in my resolution, never again to be so unreasonable, as to desire to have all my wishes compleated; for she convinced me, that the short-sighted eyes of mortals were not formed to see, whether the event of any of their own wishes would produce most happiness or misery: and that our greatest felicity, often arises from the very disappointment of those desires, the gratification of which, at the first view, seems to be necessary to our welfare.103 A description of a natural grotto in one of the mountains of Stanemore.104 June 14, 1725.105 The history of Azora.106 The picture of Azora.107 Azora's notion of the incomprehensible, and the law of reason.108 Objections.109 Continuation of Azora's religious notions.110 Continuation of Azora's religious notions.111 Continuation of Azora's religious philosophy.112 Continuation of Azora's discourse.113 Remarks on Azora's discourse.114 Azora's notion of the usefulness and excellence of christianity.115 Azora's discourse on the usefulness of christianity.116 Continuation of Azora's discourse.117 Continuation of Azora's discourse on the excellence of christianity.118 Conclusion of Azora's discourse on the excellence of the christian religion.119 [19] (19) When a plague afflicted the Massilienses, they fed a poor man deliciously, and adorned him with sacred vestments; then led him thro' the city, and sacrificed him, by throwing him headlong down from a steep rock, after the people had poured their execrations upon him, and prayed that all the calamities of their city might fall upon him. -Such practice shews that Christ being offered for the sins of the whole world, was in conformity to the ideas of mankind. The Jews had their devoted animal:-and the Gentiles had their sacrificed poor man, and other ways.120 Objections to Azora's discourse.121 Azora's account of Christ being a sin-offering.122 Azora's account of grace.123 A reflection on Azora's discourse.124 Gladuse, the old woman, conducts me to a bed in her cottage.125 The gardens of Burcot Lodge.126 A further account of Azora.127 Azora's fish-pond.128 An account of the public worship at Burcot-Lodge.129 Morning prayer.130 Evening prayer at Burcot Lodge.131 A reflection on the religion and piety of the inhabitants of Burcot-Hamlet.132 Continuation of the history of Azora.133 [20] (20.) There is a third way to make gold, to wit, by separation, for every metal contains some quantity of gold; but the quantity is so small that it bears no proportion to the expence of getting it out: this last way the Spagyrists never attempt; and as for the two other methods, maturation, and transmuting by the grand elixir, the happy hour will never come, tho' so many ingenious men have often thought it drawing nigh. To console them for the loss of their fortunes they have had some comfortable moments of reflexion, that they have been within some minutes of success, when crack! all is gone and vanished on a sudden, and they have nothing before them but cinders and broken crucibles. It is very strange then, that a man of Dr. Dickenson's great veracity and skill in chimistry, should affirm the thing was actually done in his presence by an adept. (Epistola ad mundanum de quintessentia philosophorum, etc. Oxon. 1686.) and the more so, as his friend, the great Mr. Boyle, told him the thing was an impossibility. Dickenson's words are, Nec potui sane quantacunque mihi fuerit opinio de ista re, quin aliquoties animi penderem donec illustris ea demonstratio quam vestra excellentia, biennio jam elapso, coram exhibuit, omnem ansam dubitandi mihi præcidisset-Placuit dominationi vestræ claro experimento ante oculos facto animum meum ad opus accendere etiam quæstionum mearum solutiones (quantum licerat) promittere. -This is very surprising; and the more so, as the greatest watchings and closest application, in searching after the stone, are all in vain, unless the stars shed a propitious influence on the labours of the Spagyrist: the work must be begun and advance in proper planetary hours, and depends as much on judicial astrology, as on fire, camphire, salt, labour and patience: but judicial astrology is no science. It is a mere farce. I must conclude then, that the hands of Mundanus the adept, were too quick for the doctor's eyes, and he deceived him by legerdemain: that all the books on the subject are fraudulent descriptions to deceive the credulous;-and what Mundanus told Dickinson of Sir George Ripley, canon of Bridlington, in Yorkshire, in the reign of Edward the Fourth, and of Raymund Lully, was mere innovation. He affirmed that Ripley sent the knights of Rhodes an hundred thousand pounds to support them in their wars against the Turks: and that Lully assisted Edward I. king of England, with six millions of gold, towards carrying on the cruisade. This piece of secret history he assures us he found in an antient manuscript of indisputable authority, quod inculpatæ fidei registris innotescit: A M. S. that no one ever saw except Mundanus. Penes me indeed. It was to be found only in his own head. Ripley is in great repute among the adepts to this day, and his famous unintelligible and mysterious book is called a compound of alchymie conteyning twelve gates. He inscribed the manuscript to Edward IV. but the editor of it dedicated it to Q. Elizabeth, and says, it contained the right method of making the philosopher's stone and aurum potabile. Lully was a very learned man for the latter end of the 13th century, and writ several books in Latin;-Generales artium libri. ---Libri logicales, philosophici et metaphisici. -Variarum artium libri. -Libri spirituales prædicabiles-and the vade mecum Lulli; which is a Latin piece on the philosophers stone. As to the aurum potabile mentioned by Ripley, which then and long after was esteemed a panacea, or universal medicine, it is now a question if there can be a tincture of gold; for if it be only a division of the lests, or minims of gold, by the spicula of aqua regia, and these minims thrown into oil of rosemary where they swim, it is no radical tincture of gold, and the sole virtue lies in the oil of rosemary. The oil may be evaporated; the gold dust remains; and that by melting is reduced to a lump of gold again. This I have experimented. But the alchymists say, gold may be reduced into a gum of substance like honey, without any corrosive, and that gum steeped in spirit of wine acquires a ruby colour. An ounce of this is to be mixed with 16 ounces of another liquor, and we have aurum potabile; sovereign in all distempers. This seems to me to be a second part of the romance. The making of this golden gum is a secret we can no more come at than the philosophers stone. The adepts however affirm it, and assure us, that Moses could make aurum potabile, as is evident from his pulverising the golden calf, and giving it to the children of Israel to drink. This great man, who wrote 540 years before Homer: 200 before Sanchoniatho; and 350 before the Trojan war, was, as they inform us, an adept.134 A farther account of Azora.135 Ten extraordinary country girls.136 An observation relative to the understanding of women.137 [21] (21) Azora Burcot died in the year thirty two, six years after I left them, but Antonia Fletcher is still living in the same happy situation; and by advising the young women to marry some young men of those mountains, has made an alteration in the community for the better, and encreased the number of her people. The settlement is now like to continue, and they find many advantages from having men among them. The rising generation thereby acquired, now proves a blessing to the first colony, whom years have rendered much weaker and dependent than when I first saw them. Azora, a little before she died, did intend to get in a recruit of female children for the support of the society: but Antonia judged it was much better, to let the young girls of the community get honest youths for their spouses; for, by this means, they can never want young people to assist and comfort them, and to encrease and perpetuate their happy republic. For these reasons, she sent for some young men to several neighbouring villages in Richmondshire, to make several things wanting, and to dig, and work in the gardens, for so much by the year certain; and as they were smitten with the clean, civil girls of Burcot-Hamlet, several marriages soon ensued, and infants were produced before the twelve months had expired. More than half of the twenty women that married, had twins the first year, and all of them had strong, healthy children. The ten extraordinary girls I mentioned, got very good husbands, and as Antonia was particularly kind to them on their marrying, and gave to all the wedded folks great encouragement in profitable gardens and houses, grain and cattle, they and their spouses became rather more dutiful and useful to their mistress and ruler than otherwise, and in gratitude, and for the sake of their children, did their best to please Mrs. Fletcher, and encrease the common felicity. In this condition I found them on my second arrival at Burcot-Hamlet. They were a flourishing village, and a most happy people. My second visit was fourteen years after the first; and I saw them a third time in the year fifty two. They were then all well, and enjoyed every comfort of life that can proceed from good and useful manners. Mrs. Fletcher, tho' now in years, has no sign of age in her constitution, and still leads a most active and pious life. She is a subaltern providence to them, and with the tenderest care, makes it the labour of her every day, to secure and advance the temporal and eternal interest of the people: but their souls is her main care. She performs to them divine service twice every day, as good Azora was wont to do. She reads the best sermons to the aged, and constantly catechises the young ones. She is a blessed woman. By the way, reader, I must observe to you, that in travelling over that part of Richmondshire, which is called Stanemore, I found several small villages, that are not mentioned in Camden, or the Britannia Antiqua et Nova, or in England's Gazetteer; and tho' not so pretty and happy as Burcot in the northern end of the fells of Westmorland; yet in tolerable condition, and remarkable on account of several things and people; tho' they live intirely on what their spot affords, and have little communication with their countrymen beyond the mountains that separate the inhabitants of Stanemore from the rest of England. I took notice, in particular, that altho' those poor remote people had not faculties adapted to large measures of knowledge, nor have ministers to teach them, or churches to pray in; yet they were not alienated from the taste and feelings of humanity, nor strangers to the momentous principles of true christianity. They had the bible, and could read it. They instructed their children in virtue and religion, and lived themselves as the intelligent subjects of an Almighty Governor; in a firm belief that God will distinguish the virtue and the offence of mankind hereafter, by suitable tokens of his favour, or displeasure. All this I saw in several villages of Stanemore-mountains. I lived for some time among the poor people: And I mention their case here, that you may have the less reason to imagine there is any thing incredible in my account of the extraordinary state of Burcot-Hamlet. As to the Stanemore-part of Richmondshire, Camden, and the authors of the other Britannia, and the Tourmen, etc. never so much as saw this country at a distance, I am very sure. The very little they say of it, is false and ridiculous. Camden places Bows before Gretabridge. He says, in this desolate and solitary, this mountainous and vast tract, called Stanemore, there is but one inn in the middle of it for the entertainment of travellers, whereas, in truth, there is no inn at all in what is properly called Stanemore: This inn Camden speaks of, is the Bell I mentioned before, where I breakfasted with Miss Melmoth; and lies on the left side of a fine turnpike road from Bows to Brugh, in Westmorland, the high-way to Carlisle: but tho' this road is a part of Stanemore, running in a direct line from Gretabridge through Bows to Brugh, 18 miles of delightful ground, both on account of the excellence of the way, and the fine views of mountains and vales on either hand, for 12 miles, from a beautiful ruin of a roman castle at the end of the town ** By the way, I suspect from Mr. Horsley's account of the roman castle or station, that he never was on the spot, but had his relation from the surveyor he sent out to find the length of this roman wall, and take other dimensions and notes for his Britannia; I mean Mr. Cay, who published the late map of Northumberland, which Mr. Horsley employed him to make. He does not describe the fort and situation, and the adjacent country, as if he had been there himself: nor can I think he ever rid from this castle to Brugh or Burgh under Stanemore, or from Brugh, the roman Verteræ, to Brovocum, now Brougham castle, a great and curious roman ruin. The finest things relating to them, he has omitted, and many antiquities that are to be found in off-sets by the way. I question, likewise, if he ever saw with his own eyes, the eastern and western terminations of the roman wall. If he was at Newcastle, and really did ride over Lonsdale marsh to Tunnocelum, (a marsh where I had like to have lost my life), it is surprizing that a man of his understanding, and taste for antiquities, should give no better account of these places. For my part, I could not see what he saw: nor did he see what I saw, at the end of the town of Stanemore. , yet, this is but the southern beginning of Stanemore: That vast tract of mountains, glins, and vallies, forest, rock, and water, the most wonderful land in the world, for 40 miles to the end of the country, if it was possible to go straight on, lies on the right hand of this road, as you ride to Brugh under Stanemore; or, on your left, as you come from Westmorland to Catarracton or Catarrick. Here, by the way, let me tell you, Reader, lives Ralph Hawkwell, who keeps an excellent house, where you may get choice things, after a ride of 22 miles, if you come from Boroughbridge to go the north; or of 15 miles, if from Gretabridge, for the south; provided you have the rem; and if you have not, tho' you were an apostle of a man, Ralph would have very little regard for you. Indeed, every where in the north, where the best of things are to be had, I have always found travelling there as expensive as near London. Many I know give a different account: but the reason is, either they never were there; or, they travel in a pilgrim-like manner. You must take care, then, to have money enough, if ever you undertake the northern expedition I have frequently gone upon: and as it is not safe carrying much cash with you, for there are rogues in that part of the world, as well as in this; they rob even on Stanemore-road; and in riding over the great moor that lies between Brugh and Appleby, there is a little ale-house to be seen at a good distance, on the right hand, at the entrance of a wood, at the bottom of a range of vast fells, where high-way-men sometimes resort: I was pursued by two of them, not long ago, and to the excellence of my horse, owed the saving of my purse, and perhaps my life: they were well mounted, but I kept an hundred yards a-head of them for several miles, while, as fast as they could stretch away, they chased me till near the town of Brugh. I was all alone, my fellow having received a mischief, and being obliged to stay a day behind; and the rogues did swear and hoot most horribly, and fired three shots at me; but my horse was as good as ever spanked it along, and I cut him up, and pricked him over the turf, like the wind away: -I say, then, as it is not safe travelling with all the money necessary for such a long journey, the best way is, when cash runs low, to lie by to rest for a week, and put your notes in order, in some town, and by one of the dealers, or manufacturers of the place, draw on your friend, or goldsmith in London, for what you want, and by the return of the post, you will be paid the money where you are. In this manner I did, when I was at Richmond last, in the north-riding of Yorkshire: Being in want of money, I asked a gentleman with whom I chanced to dine, how I could supply myself with 20 l. by draft on one in the capital; and he directed me to his neighbour, who let me have what I had occasion for at moderate exchange, as soon as he heard from his friend in London. I might have had any money I named in this way: and so, in other places of trade. I hope, reader, you will excuse this little digression, because it is meant well; and for the same reason, I imagine you will pardon me for advising you, in the next place, (should the fates ever bring you to Catarractonium, in order to proceed to the northern extremity of our country), to go 4 miles out of your way to see Richmond town, before you set out for Gretabridge, to Joseph Marshall's, the best house of the two inns there. The delightful, romantic situation of Richmond, and the fine curiosities about the town, will afford you an agreeable entertainment for a couple of days; and if you like going at night to a club of very worthy, sensible men of this town, who are very civil to strangers, you may pass the evening in a very pleasing way; or if you have a taste for dancing, and prefer the conversation of a fine girl to a pipe and more serious discourse, there is a small polite assembly of as pretty women as ever gladdened the heart of man. My method, while there, was to smoak one night with the club; and the next I devoted to the ladies. We made up ten couple, and had the hemp-dressers one night, which is, you know, if you are a dancing reader, the most difficult, and laborious of all the country dances; and no where have I seen the ground more actively beat, or, in juster measure. Life and truth and charms were in perfection in those Richmond girls. I was there in 29, 37, and 53, and the sensible club, and bright assembly, were still in being; but no more than three did I see, of men or women, in 37, that was there in 29; and in 52, they were all strangers to me. Some were married away; some had removed; and others were translated to the shades of eternity. This was to me a moral lesson. When I looked round the assembly room the last time I was there, and found every glorious girl of my acquaintance was gone, and that years had rendered me almost unfit to join with the ladies then present, in the dancings of the night, a philosophical sadness came powerfully upon my mind, and I could not help sighing in the midst of harmony, and a blaze of charms. This life, I saw was a fleeting scene indeed. And now, reader, as to Stanemore-country, if it should ever come into your head, to wander over this wild and romantic part of our world, at the hazard of your neck, and the danger of being starved, your route is, when you have passed the turnpike on Stanemore, in your way to Brugh, to turn off to the right, beyond the public-house, and ascend a fine rising valley you will see between two mountains, till you come to the top of the first hills: then proceed, if you can, in the course I have described, and wherever it is in your power, tend to the north east, for that is the way out. This is one way into the heart of Stanemore in Richmondshire, and will bring you, by the way, among the dreadful northern fells of Westmorland; a frightful country, and a fatiguing march. Another way to the Stanemore Alps, is behind Jack Railton's, the quaker's house at Bows. Hire a guide from him, and his man will bring you as he did me once through a very surprizing way of deep bottoms to a public house at Eggleston, on the border of Richmond-Stanemore. There rest that night, and early the next morning, proceed due north, when you can, with another guide, and you will come to mountains upon mountains, rapid rivers, and headlong torrents, that form amazing and tremendous scenes. Or, as this way is neither comfortable, nor very safe, it is a better road to the confines, or beginning of Stanemore, to ride from Gretabridge to Bernard Castle, and from Bernard Castle to Eggleston, about 16 miles, as I judge, for it is not measured, and then set out for the mountains from Eggleston, as before directed. -I have been told there is another way into Stanemore, through Bishoprick; but as I am a stranger to it, I can only say what I have heard, that it is worse than the bottoms I went through from the quaker's house. This is enough, reader, to shew you how to get into Stanemore, if you have the curiosity and heart to visit that very wild and wonderful land.138 July 19, 1726. We depart from Burcot-Hamlet, and arrive at a burning valley.139 An account of a waterfall at Stanemore.140 July 19, 1726. A dinner by a cataract, and a wonderful fall of O Fin the boy.141 A great deliverance.142 [22] (22) Such knights were honourable creations made by the Irish kings. We have an account of them in the psalter of Tarah, before the reigns of Conaire the Great, A. M. 3970, ante Christum 34; Cormac Ulfadda, A. D. 230; and the glorious Brien Boiromhe, A. D. 1027; the three greatest monarchs that ever Ireland had: Fitzgerald, the first knight of Glin, was so made by the immortal Brien Boiroimhe, who fell in the bloody fight, A. D. 1239, that was sought by him with Maolmorda king of Leimster, who joined with the Danes. The king of Ireland and the king of Leinster slew each other; and with Brien Boiroimhe set the glory of Ireland. The states from this time began to decay; and Roderick o Connor, who came to the crown, A. D. 1168. was the last king of Ireland. Our Henry the Second, got the kingdom A. D. 1172, by two means; one of which was a grant the pope made of it to him; who was allowed by the natives to be supreme Lord of the island in temporals, and the nobility had by commission resigned it to him, after the death of Brien Boiroimhe. -The other mean, and what effectually did the work, was the king of Leinster's joining with Strangwell, who was at the head of the English forces, and had married that king's daughter. An old chronicle says she was the most beautiful woman upon earth of her time, and very learned: but inferior nevertheless in beauty and learning to the six princesses we read of in the psalter of Tarah, who were fair beyond all mortals that ever lived, and wonderful in the extent of their knowledge; to wit, The princess Mac Diarmuid. The princess Mac Reagien. The princess Mac Faolain. The princess Mac Kennedy. The princess O Heyn. The princess O Flaherty. These six were Druidesses, says the psalter of Tarah. By the way, reader, let me tell you, that from this same psalter of Tarah, I writ out one of the finest and most improving love stories that ever I read. It is called the adventure of Terlagh Mac Shain and the beautiful Gara O Mulduin; which happened in the reign of Cormac Ulfada, king of Ireland, in the year of salvation 213, that Faon Maccumhail, commonly called Fian Maccul, the mighty champion, beat the Picts, and brought off among other prisoners, the beautiful Ciarnuit, (daughter to the king of the Picts) whom Cormac Ulfada took for his concubine. This story is likewise more shortly told in the red book of Mac Eogane, a very valuable old Irish manuscript: and from both those books I will give my reader the best part of this adventure as soon as I can see a proper place to bring it in.143 [23] (23.) This Cormac Cuillenan writ the famous psalter of Cashel, a very extraordinary and valuable book, which he composed from antient poems of the bards, who thus writ their history, and from venerable records, as this king and prelate declares in his will. The clause is this -My psalter, which preserves the antient records and monuments of my native country, which are transcribed with great fidelity, I leave to Ronal Cashel, to be preserved to after-times and ages yet to come. -There is another remarkable clause in this great man's will, to wit,- My soul for mercy I commit to heaven; my body leave to dust and rottenness. There is not a word of any saint in it; and of consequence, there was no saint-worship then in Ireland. Cormac writ his will the day before he fought the bloody battle of Maghailbe with the king of Leinster, and therein fell. It begins in this manner:- Summon'd away by death, which I perceive Approaches; for by prophetic skill, I find that short will be my life and reign: I solemnly appoint that my affairs Shall thus be settled after I am dead; And thus I constitute my latest will: My royal robe embroider'd o'er with gold, And sparkling with the rays of costly jewels; Well suited to a state of majesty, I do bequeath, etc.-- My coat of mail of bright and polish'd steel Will well become the martial king of Ulster, To whom I give it: and my golden chain Shall the most pious Muchuda enjoy As a reward, etc.-- My golden vestment for most sacred use, And my royal wardrobe I hereby give To etc.---- Now from this antique piece verbally translated, I think it is evident, that the kings of the four provinces of Ireland were not such poor and ignorant chiefs as they are generally imagined to be; and of consequence, that one of the four, to whom the other three did homage, and who was therefore called the king of Ireland, was always a potent prince, and could do great matters, when they were all united. This consideration, I fansy, (and the address let me add of Anselm, archbishop of Canterbury, and of Lanfranc, archbishop of the same see, to Mortogh O Brien king of Ireland, and Terlah O Brien king of Ireland, Moriardacho Glorioso and Terdeluacho Magnifico, To the most magnificent Terlagh O Brien, king of Ireland, our benediction, etc. as you may read them at large in Usher's Primordia ** These letters were written by the English archbishops to the Irish kings, Turlogh and Murtogh, in the years 1098 and 1110. ) ought to give some credit to O Fluherty's Ogygia, Keating's History, and MacCurtius' Annals; which those writers really took from very antient records, and principally from the very valuable manuscripts, called the psalters of Cashel and Tarah. What the psalter of Cashel was I have told you, reader; and as to the psalter of Tarah, the history of it is this. - On a tract of land called Tarah, that was taken from the province of Leimster, and added to the county of Meath, stood the largest of the four vast palaces of the kings of Ireland, and at that grand fabric there was a triennial meeting of the states of the kingdom, called the royal assembly of Tarah. There they enacted laws, examined the antient chronicles and records, and purged them from all false and spurious relations, settled genealogies, and considered noble exploits. All the things that received the assembly's approbation were registered, and transcribed into the royal records, and they called this journal the psalter of Tarah.144 1725. June 11. The journey continued.145 A reflexion on the bones of John Orton.146 [24] (24.) The expression-partaker of the divine nature by impressions from it, may, perhaps, be thought by some readers, to approach to vision; and to contradict my own opinion before delivered, in relation to this subject: let me observe then, that by impression, I here mean no more, than bright beams of light cast upon the soul by the present Deity; as he sits all power, all knowledge, in the heart, and dispenses such rays of wisdom to the pious petitioner, as are sufficient to procure a lasting sense of spiritual heavenly things. God is not only in heaven. He dwelleth indeed in the heaven of heavens after the most glorious manner, as the High and Lofty One, and by some splendid appearance, manifests a presence to the senses of the blessed spirits ** As to the expression just now used, to wit, that this infinite Spirit manifests himself to the senses of his blessed subjects-it may be asked how this can be-can the eye behold what is infinite and invisible? The answer is this, that although God's essence be invisible, yet there is a glory, the train and attendance of his essence, which exhibits a bodily and sensible vision of God. He decketh himself with light as with a garment. This is the dwelling of his essence. He dwelleth in light that is unapproachable. We must distinguish then between the essential and the majestatic presence of God. The majestatic presence is the discovery of his essential presence in a determinate place by a magnificent luminous appearance; and this the apostle calls the excellent glory-megaloprepous doxes. This glory appeared on Mount Sinai six days together. It rested and dwelt in the sanctuary. It filled the house. Moses saw its back parts, that is, a small measure and scantling of it, in proportion to the weakness of his mortal eyes: but, in the other world, when mortals shall have put on immortality, and our bodies shall be invested with the new powers of spirituality and incorruption, then face to face: we shall be able to see the whole lustre of divine Majesty as familiarly as one man beholdeth the face of another.**As grateful objects of sense make up a great part of human delectation; may we not suppose, that this glory of God, accommodated to our senses, will produce a more ravishing and transcendent delight, than all the objects in nature are capable of producing? There are two ways then, (as an excellent one observes) of seeing God, to wit, by intelligence, and, in some manner, by sense: but we must not imagine that these two make up the beatific vision. There is a cause of more importance to beatitude. The sight and contemplation of the divine glories is our act; but the act of God is the communication of them. This makes the saints perfectly blessed. By the communication of the divine glories, we come to be, not bare spectators, but, theias koinonoi phuseos, partakers of the divine nature. As we are more obliged, (says the writer I have mentioned) to the sun (who is the cheer and vigor of nature, and the very life of all animal and vegetable beings), for his influences than for his fight:-so are the heavenly inhabitants much more obliged to God for their receptions from him as the fountain of life and wisdom, than for the sight and contemplation of him as the subject of perfection. This illustrates the matter; and we may say, there is a third way of seeing God, to wit, in the enjoyment of him; the beamings of his favor, and the effusions of his love, passing thro' the whole man, and producing an intimate sensation of him both in body and soul, and filling both with an unconceivable and endless delectation. This is seeing God as he is. ; but as he is an infinite Spirit, diffused thro' all things, filling as well as containing them, seeing and knowing all even the most secret things; for, His eyes, (to speak after a popular manner) are ten thousand times brighter than the sun, beholding all the ways of men, and considering the most secret paths; knowing all things e're ever they were created, and looking upon all things after they were perfected; it follows, that since nothing can exclude the presence of this infinite Spirit; then, in Him we live, move, and have our being: He is not far from any of us; but altho' he is above all, yet he is through all, and in us all; within us, as well as without us; and therefore, in the hearts of the faithful, he must be considered, as an immense, intellectual, pure light, ready to enlighten and enliven them, and to shed forth the bright beams of his love upon them. I imagine this illustrates the thing. To me it seems reason.147 A meditation in a closet.148 An inventory of the goods of John Orton.149 A scheme.150 A fine rural scene.151 A description of an extraordinary cave in Stanemore.152 [25] (25.) Dr. Shaw, in his travels, shews that the cave near Cape Bonn was the grot which Virgil describes in the following manner- Defessi Æneadæ, quæ proxima, litora cursu Contendunt petere, et Lybiæ vertuntur ad oras. Est in secessu longo locus: insula portum Efficit objectu laterum, quibus omnis ab alto Frangitur inque sinus scindit sese unda reductos. Hinc atque hinc vastæ rupes, geminique minantur In cœlum scopuli. Quorum sub vertice latè Æquora tuta silent. Tum sylvis scena coruscis Desuper, horrentique atrum nemus imminet umbra. Fronte sub adversa scopulis pendentibus antrum Intus aquæ dulces, vivoque sedilia saxo; Nympharum domos.--- The weary Trojans ply their shatter'd oars To nearest land, and make the Lybian shores. D. The Trojans, weary'd with the storms explore The nearest land, and reach the Lybian shore. P. Within a long recess there lies a bay, An island shades it from the rolling sea, And forms a port secure for ships to ride, Broke by the jutting land on either side: In double streams the briny waters glide. D. Far in a deep recess, her jutting sides An isle projects, to break the rolling tides And forms a port, where, curling from the sea The waves steal back, and wind into a bay. P. Betwixt two rows of rocks, a sylvan scene Appears above, and groves for ever green. D. On either side, sublime in air, arise Two tow'ring rocks, whose summits brave the skies; Low at their feet the sleeping ocean lies: Crown'd with a gloomy shade of waving woods, Their awful brows hang nodding o'er the floods. P. A grot is form'd beneath, with mossy seats To rest the Nereids, and exclude the heats: Down thro' the crannies of the living walls The crystal streams descend in murm'ring falls. D. Oppos'd to these, a secret grotto stands, The haunt of Nereids, fram'd by nature's hands; Where polish'd seats appear of living stone, And limpid rills, that tinkle as they run. P. There lies a harbour far within the land, Commodious form'd by an opposing isle: Which breaking as a mound the furious waves, They run divided, calmer then unite. On each side rocks, and two with steepy height Aspiring touch the clouds, safe at whose feet The waters far and near pacific sleep. Distant from these a sylvan scene, beyond, To bound the prospect, woods with horrent shade. Op'ning to view, beneath the hanging rocks A cave; within, a fountain pure; and seats Form'd from the living stone; the cool recess Of nymphs:---- S. This grot within a mountain over-shaded with trees, and lying open to the sea, with a cliff on each side, and not far from Carthage, answers so well to the Nympharum domus of Virgil ** The kingdom of Tunis in the west of Barbary in Afric, was once the celebrated republic of Carthage. The city of Carthage was about 4 miles from the spot the city of Tunis now stands on. Many ruins of it are still remaining. This glorious city, that was 23 miles round, and built near 100 years before Rome, was taken and utterly rased by young Africanus, that is, Scipio Æmilianus, before Christ 146 years. It had disputed with Rome for the empire of the world, for the space of 118 years. The most beautiful village in the world, called Marsa, now stands in the western point of antient Carthage, and from thence it is a fine walk to Dido's Cave under Cape-Bonn. , that I think we need not doubt of its being the cave into which the gallant Æneas led the gracious queen: but that it ever was a quarry, and that pillars were made by the workmen to support the roof, as Dr. Shaw says, does not seem to be the case. The whole grot, which goes in 36 fathoms under the hill, its arches, and pillars were undoubtedly by the hand of nature; like many others I have seen. So it appeared to me. I could not see the least sign of a labouring hand in this cave.153 [26] (26.) St. Donat's Cave, (by the vulgar called Reynard's Church) in Glamorganshire, is 160 feet in length, the breadth 43, and the height 34. Every spring tide fills it with water, and has smoothed it to perfection. At the upper end of it, there is a grand seat, arched into the stone, and near it a falling-spring of fresh water drops into a cistern it has made. The rushing tides have made good seats in the sides of the rock, and from them you have a view of the channel, which is seven leagues. Every ship that sails to and from Bristol, is seen, and the mountains of Somersetshire bound the prospect that way. The cliff over the cave is almost double the height of the grot, and to the very edge of the precipice, the cattle come to graze, to avoid the insects, who will not approach the sea-breezes. The whole is a charming scene.154 A description of a fine seat in Yorkshire-Stanemore; which belongs to a society of philosophers.155 1725. June 19. the 7th day since I left Jack Price.156 The gardens of Ulubræ.157 An account of the philosophers of Stanemore. 1725. June 19. 7th day.158 [27] (27) I observed before, that Camden, and every other describer of England, had not the least notion of Stanemore, that is, the north fells of Westmorland, and the northern mountains of Richmondshire: and as to the people who live on the borders of Stanemore, I could not find so much as one man in Richmond, Gretabridge, Bowes, and Brugh, that had been any length of way up the mountains. When I asked Railton, the quaker, a very knowing man, who keeps the George at Bowes, what sort of a country Stanemore was? He answered, it is, after a few miles riding, more wild and mountainy than the highlands of Scotland, and unpassable: nay, my landlord at Eggleston, some miles within Stanemore, knew nothing of the mountains upon mountains that are far beyond his house.159 * You will find this curious letter in Biograph. Britan.160 A rule to determine expeditiously, the tangents of curve lines.161 Microscopical observations made at Ulubræ.162 Colours in the microscope.163 Works of art in the microscope.164 The vegetable kingdom in a microscope.165 An account of a nettle in the double reflecting microscope.166 A sorrel leaf, and buds of french bean and almond in a microscope.167 A louse and flea in a microscope.168 A description of a flea.169 The louse.170 A battle in a microscope between a louse and a flea.171 [28] (28) Tho' the image of a flea may be magnified to eight feet, by removing farther off the white paper screen, on which the picture of the object is thrown very beautifully from the object posited in a single pocket microscope that is fastened to a tube to the solar microscope; yet the image or picture is more distinct and exact, when not enlarged to more than three feet, on the opposite side of the darkened room. -By the way, reader, the solar microscope is the most entertaining of all the microscopes, and by it, without any skill in drawing, you may easily make an exact picture of any animal or object you can put into the fastened pocket microscope. The object is so intensely illuminated by the sun beams collected by a convex lens, that are thrown on it by a looking-glass, that its picture is most perfectly and planely represented on the white screen: You may have a mite, or one of the imperceptible animals of rotten wood, so truly and greatly magnified, as easily to sketch out the exact image of it, in all its wonderful parts, with a pencil or a pin: and in this amusing work, and in transferring the objects from the solar to the double reflecting microscope, the catoptric microscope, and the microscope for opake objects, how usefully and delightfully might a young man of fortune employ many hours that are miserably sauntered away, or consumed in senseless and illicit delights?172 Spiders in the great double microscope.173 A reflexion on the works of nature as seen in the microscope.174 The library at Ulubræ.175 An account of the book called Vindiciæ contra Tyrannos.176 [29] (29.) Many instances can be produced of Charles the First, exerting a power contrary to the interest of the protestant religion; and a capital one is, this king's express and strict orders, signed with his own hand, to captain John Pennington, to deliver (and he did, in obedience thereto, deliver) a squadron of the naval forces of England, consisting of eight men of war, into the hands and absolute power of the French king; and Charles directed, that in case of disobedience in the English captains to that order, Pennington was to sink them. These naval forces enabled the Gaulish king to break and suppress the power of the Rochelle protestants: this was an unjustifiable step indeed in Charles's reign: and if to this we add a thousand acts of this said sovereign Lord, that were the cause of all the disagreements, differences and contentions between his majesty and his people, that happened in his reign, and the sources of public calamity, it is certainly most amazing, to see the memory of this prince treated equally, if not superior to the most celebrated martyrs! torrents of tears have I seen pour from the eyes of our mourning theologers on the 30th of January. I remember one time, when Dr. Warren preached the commemoration sermon at St. Margaret's Westminster, that he wept and sobbed so bitterly and calamitously, that he could hardly get out the following concluding words of his fine discourse- the Roy---Royal Ma---Martyr---the---holy Martyr ---the---the---blessed Martyr. Nor can I forget the learned author of the Life of David. This gentleman preached before the late Duke of Devonshire in Christ-Church, Monday, Jan. 30, 1737, on these words-Take away the dross from the silver, and there shall come forth a vessel for the finer. -Take away the wicked from before the king, and his throne shall be established in righteousness. Prov. 25. In this fine sermon, the Dr. gave us the picture of a man as like Charles the 1st. as Phalaris was to the apostle St John: he then deprecated the murder, (which are his own words), and in the most piteous manner, with tears informed us, that God gave us this prince in his mercy, and took him away in his indignation: A Prince: (says the doctor), who was a true lover of his people, compassionate of their errors and misfortunes, and religiously tender of their well-being. He equally understood and practised religion in its purity; and he died defending it. King Charles the First of blessed memory! -Here the preacher wept, and then proceeded to abuse the opposers of this royal contender for absolute prerogatives; as absolute as those the eastern, or civil law potentates claim; and then, to make and apply observations and inferences to the persons and characters of the present times, he told the lord-lieutenant, and the house of lords, (among other admirable things) that they should remember how the lay lords had consented to deprive the bishops of their seats in parliament, and rob the spiritual lords of their rights and privileges; which drew down a just judgment upon themselves; for they, the said lay lords, were soon after voted useless: have a care then, lay lords, how you act for the future against the spiritual lords. Maintain, for the time to come, a strict and inviolable regard to the rights, privileges, and properties of the spiritual lords. This advice, by the way, appeared to me very singular, and I think, on the contrary, that it would be well for our church, if our bishops were obliged to leave the court, the parliament, and their politicks, and then spend their lives in labouring in the vineyard of Christ, in their several dioceses. What have priests to do with baronies and acts of state; men that ought above all other men to be content with food and raiment, and to withdraw themselves from the world, that by their continued conversation with God, and attention only to the sacred prescriptions of the gospel, they might appear replenished with that divine power and virtue, which by prayer, and all the exercises of piety and penitence, they had implored; and by their examples and instructions, brighten and inflame the people with the love of God, and improve the good in goodness, and correct and reform the wicked. This would be acting like bishops indeed. The holiness of our prelates lives, and their fervor in teaching mankind the truths of Jesus Christ, would soon advance the cause of their master. They would bring the people to conform to the will of the Lord, and cause the learned to purifie the defilements of genius; that pride and vanity, that curiosity and self-love which are incompatible with an accomplished purity of heart. But as to Charles the First of blessed memory, certain I am, that whatever Dean Delany may think of him, this prince did really contend for the cardinal maxims of the civil law, and died, not for true religion, (as this doctor says) but to advance the civil laws above the constitution and laws of Britain, and thereby acquire an absolute dominion. Quod principi placuit legis habet vigorem. It appears from matters of fact, that his pleasure was to be the law. In him was to reside the sole power of imposing taxes on the people. This power, and other powers contrary to the fundamental form of this government; this king of blessed memory assumed and challenged as rights, under the name of his undoubted prerogatives, and grasped the pretence so hard, as never to part with it, till he wanted strength to hold it. This is the martyr. His reign was a provoking violation of parliamentary rights, and a cruel oppression of the subjects. Instead then of the fine laboured reasons offered by Dr. Delaney to the lord-lieutenant of Ireland, to account for the way of providence in the tragical death of this king, he might have said-That whereas this prince had departed from the known laws of the land to an arbitrary power, and not only the pressures and sufferings of the people, under this method of governing, were innumerable; but the fundamental form and original constitution of Britain, (on which the protestant religion and the liberty of Europe depend) was in danger of being subverted, and for ever destroyed, therefore did Providence deliver up this king into the hands of wicked men, who had usurped the administration of affairs, that the mortification in the constitution might be cured by the death of this destroying prince; and the violence of his exit remain a monument in terrorem to all future kings of England; to have a care how they offer to make any alteration or change in the original form of government; for violations of the constitution had brought Charles the First to the block. This had been a reasonable account of that sad affair. It is supported by matters of fact. N. B. The contentions between his Majesty and the house of commons began about the following essential points.- 1. A power the king assumed, and challenged as a right, to impose taxes, levy monies, and impose duties on merchandizes, without a previous grant thereof in parliament. 2. That the commons were obliged to observe and obey the king's messages, in giving precedency to the matter of supplies, preferable to the redress of grievances, and to depend on royal promises, for time and opportunity to dispatch other business. 3. That the commons had no right and power of enquiring into the demeanour of the king's ministers and nearest servants, and impeaching them for misdemeanours. 4. That the king could, in his courts below, take cognizance of, and censure the debates of the commons. 5. That the king could, by warrants signed with his own hand, arrest and imprison his subjects; and especially the members of parliament, for what they said and did in parliament. These illegal and destructive acts of power king Charles the First claimed as his prerogatives, and exercised them as long as he was able, with great rigour, and extraordinary circumstances; and how such a general oppression, and rendering the two estates of lords and commons of no signification, can make the memory of this prince blessed;---or, how his suffering, in the manner he did, in defence of such absolute, law-giving power, that was inconsistent with the constitution, and with the reasons upon which it is founded, can render him a holy and blessed martyr, is past my comprehension. I should rather chuse to say, that since Charles would not act for the protection, happiness, and safety of his people, but by a continued exertion of sovereign power, endeavored to oppress and ruin them, and change the form of government, his arbitrary principles brought him to a dismal extremity. This (as before observed) is the truth of the case. May his death be a warning to future English kings; that they may, like his majesty king George the Second, govern with parliaments, and exert their power for the protection, safety, and happiness of the people.177 Who was the author of the Vindiciæ contra Tyrannos.178 [30] Account of Du Plessis Mornay.(30). The great Du Plessis Mornay was born the 5th of November, 1549, and died at his baronie La Foret in Poitou, the 13th of November, 1623, aged 74; having retired to his country seat, after Louis the Thirteenth had taken from him the government of Saumur. He writ several excellent books, and one that is invaluable, called Mornay on the Eucharist, against the papists, which was published in 1598. -This book produced the famous conference between Du Plessis Mornay and Cardinal Perron, at Fontainbleau in the year 1600. The victory at this conference is by the papists ascribed to Perron: but the protestants, with more justice affirm, that Du Plessis was victor at Fontainbleau. Jacques Davy du Perron, at the time, bishop of 'Evreux, published a book on this conference, in which he gives a pretended true account of it, and illustrates and defends his cause: but to this the great Mornay replied, and made a poor devil of Perron. See those pieces, reader, and you will be finely entertained; for, Perron, tho' a papist, was a great man. An account of cardinal Perron. Sept. 5. N. B. Cardinal Perron was born in the year 1556, Nov. 25, and died at Paris, A. D. 1618, aged 63. He had been trained up in the reformed religion with great care; but went off to popery, on the preferments offered him by Henry III. -As, on the contrary, Du Plessis Mornay had been educated a papist, but became a protestant, to the loss of the greatest preferments. - It was Du Perron that converted to popery the famous Henri Sponde, bishop of Pamiers, and abridger of the annals of Baronius, dedicated to Perron:-and, in conjunction with Cardinal d'Ossat, he made a papist of Henri le Grand, Henry the Fourth of France. It was owing to the management of this cardinal de St. Agnes, in the conclave, and to d'Ossat, that that wicked fellow, Paul V. ** So Marbais, a doctor of divinity, who knew this pope well, assures us, Nic. de Marbais requeste a l'empereur, p. 223. Leyde 1613. was created pope, and cardinal Baronius lost the popedom: Bellarmine, however, (who was likewise one of the 59 cardinals in that conclave,) might have had it, but he refused it. -Those things we find in Guy Pattins letters, tom. I. -Godeau melanges critiques, apud antillon.-and hist. des conclaves. Borghese, alias Paul V, who succeeded that fine character, Leo XI. †† Leo XI. reigned but twenty-five days. in the year 1605, in the 53d year of his age, died the 28th of January, 1621; aged 68.- and had for his successor, Ludovisio, called Gregory the XVth. An account of cardinal d'Ossat. N. B. D'Ossat was born August 23, 1536, and died at Rome, March 13, 1604. aged 67. His five volumes of letters are a master-piece in politicks, and next to Father Paul's history of the Council of Trent, are the best books you can look into, reader, for an exact and full description of the artifices of the court of Rome. - Remarkable was the saying of this cardinal, when Henry the Fourth of France was stabbed;-If there was the least pretext for such assassinations, they ought to be contrived and executed by the hereticks, whom the king separated from and abandoned, and thereby gave them reason to be afraid of him; but they never made the least attempt of this kind, neither against him, nor the five kings his predecessors, tho' their majesties made the most cruel butcheries of the Huguenots. Account of Cardinal Baronius. N. B. Baronius was born, October 30, in the year 1538, and died the 30th of June, 1607, aged 68. His twelve tomes in folio of ecclesiastical annals, containing the history of the church for twelve centuries, ending at the year 1198, have been well called the twelve labours of the Roman Hercules. It is a prodigious work. The reading, the erudition, the judgment, the order and method of the author, are amazing: but an unhappy prejudice for papal rights, and Romish pieties, attaches him continually to the Roman cause, without the least regard to truth, in a thousand and a thousand articles, and makes it plain, that he was not assisted from above in this work, as he affirms himself. The most judicious of the Roman Catholic writers say,-Il seroit a souhaiter qu'il eut ete exempt des preventions que son education & son païs lui avoient inspirees. N. B. Isaac Casaubon, in his fine exercitations, says with great justice of this great man;-"" This is a just character of the annals of Baronius. The best edition of this work, is the English translation of it by Hall, doctor of the Sorbonne. It is not only preferable to the French, Italian, and every other translation, but far better than the original Latin, on account of Hall's corrections, and most learned notes and dissertations. Account of the centuries of Magdebourg. N. B. After all, however, the centuries of Magdebourg, which were published in 1559 and 1560, are the valuable body of ecclesiastical history. Baronius, who pretended to answer them by his annals, is undoubtedly the finest writer; but the ministers, Matthias Flaccius, Jean Vigand, Matthew le Judin, Basil Faber, Nicholas Gallus, and Andrew Corvin, are the learned men to whom we are indebted for the noblest collection of historical truths in ecclesiastical affairs, that ever appeared in the world. They are honest writers indeed. Every page of their work discovers a zeal for truth, and the glory of Christ; while Baronius sadly labours for a pontifex maximus, and the cheats of Rome. The work of the centuriators extends to the 13th century, and every century contains 16 chapters: the 1st is a summary of the things to be recited; then the 2d treats of the place and extent of the church; 3, of persecution and peace; 4, of doctrine; 5, of heresies; 6, of ceremonies and rites; 7, of polity and government; 8, of schism; 9, of synods; 10, of bishops; 11, of heretics; 12, of martyrs; 13, of miracles; 14, of the Jews; 15, of religions separated from the church; and 16, of broils and political changes. In this clear and distinct manner are the things of every age treated. N. B. Baronius ascribes the guidance and success of his pen in writing his annals, to the favor of the most holy Mary, the mother of God. "" -What must a true christian say to this? Many are the abridgments of the annals; but the best is that of Henri Sponde, the apostate, aforementioned. It is well done. Account of cardinal Bellarmine. N. B. Bellarmine was born the 4th of October, 1542, and died September 17, 1621, aged 79: -He was a man of great learning in the works of the fathers, councils, canon law, and church history, and writ several laboured things: but his chief performance is his Body of Controversy in 4 volumes folio; which the catholicks think very fine: They shew, indeed, great reading; but, ignorance of the sense of scripture, and are quite void of argument. There is not one article of popery tolerably well defended in the 4 volumes. Every exposition and vindication are senseless and ridiculous. Account of Isaac Casaubon. N. B. Isaac Casaubon, who writ the Exercitations on Baronius, (and lies in Westminster Abbey) was born Feb. 18, 1559, and died in the 55th year of his age, A. D. 1614. Besides his exercitations, he published several learned works, and animadversions and commentaries on Persius, Polybius, Athenæus, Strabo, Suetonius, and Diogenes Laertius. It was he first published in Greek, Polyænus's Stratagems of the Antients in War, in the year 1589; having purchased the M. S. at a great price; but the Latin version he added to it, was done by Justus Vulteius: and we have since had a more correct edition of Polyænus, by Pancratius, in the year 1690. The Epistolæ Casauboni are likewise valuable things; but of most merit are his Exercitations, and his Persius: His Commentary on Persius is admirable, not only for a just explication of his incomparable author, but for a deal of fine classical learning he has scattered through it: and for his Exercitations against Baronius, the friend of truth must be for ever charmed with them. It is to be lamented that we have but 16 of them. They go no farther than to the 34th year of Jesus Christ, and relate principally to Baronius's bad explication of scripture. Two Jesuits, Boullenger and Jean L'Heureux, writ against the Exercitations: but Endemen Jean, the name L'Heureux went by, his defence of Baronius is very weak, as you will soon see, reader, on turning him over: And as to Julius Cæsar Boullenger, the other monk, when you have read his Dissertation against Casaubon, and bishop Montaigue's animadversions on that dissertation, you will perceive he was a poor creature. It is remarkable, that Isaac Casaubon's two sons, Henry and Merric, both went off to popery, and died in France apostate priests in the Romish church; tho' their father had fled from that country for the sake of the protestant religion, and was one of the best defenders of the reformed faith. He was one of the judges at the famous conference between Du Plessis and Perron: and, by the way, I think it equally remarkable, that the grandson of the great primate Usher, and the only remaining person of the archbishop's family, should be the most violent papist I ever saw. I knew the man in Dublin, and have never heard so outragious a catholic as he was. He said, to my astonishment, that his grandfather was a great light, but burnt with his head downwards in this world, till he dropt into hell in the next. As to the conference between Du Plessis and Perron, about the Eucharist and other matters, besides the two pieces I have mentioned, to wit, Perron's account of it, and Mornay's answer to the account, you will find a good relation of it in L'Histoire de L'edit de Nantes, tom. I. p. 343, & Suiv: and see on this article Sully's Memoirs. N. B. The ingenious and excellent Miss Mornay, of Shelford-Park, is descended from the great Philip Mornay Du Plessis, and the last of the house of Du Plessis now living. Her grandfather, Jacques de Mornay, was great grandson to Du Plessis Mornay, and came over to England on the revocation of the edict of Nantes, in the year 1685. Of the edict of Nantz. N. B. Lewis the 14th, with the same hand that signed the edict of revocation, likewise signed an order for eighty thousand merciless dragoons and other troops, to march against his protestant subjects, and force them, by plundering and torturing, to turn papists. I say with the same hand, because the 12th article of the edict signed by this cruel and perfidious prince, in the 43d year of his reign, is as follows:-12. And furthermore, Those of the said pretended reformed religion, till such time as it shall please God to illuminate them, may abide in the towns, and places of our kingdom, countries and lands of our dominion, and continue their traffick, and enjoy their goods, without being molested or hindered, on account of the said pretended reformed religion, provided they do not assemble to exercise it, etc. -This was a a monstrous cheat and perfidiousness, to deceive and ensnare his poor subjects. Something might be said for the edict of revocation, if Lewis had declared, that to quell the agitations of his conscience, he must revoke the edict of Nantes, tho' he had sworn to the observation of it; but he allowed a certain time to his protestant subjects, after which they must either turn catholicks, or quit the kingdom, with their families and effects, or else they should be exposed to such and such treatment. -This had been plain and honest dealing, tho' an arbitrary proceeding: but to give it under his hand to his subjects, that they might stay and continue their traffick, enjoy their goods without being molested, or hindered on account of their religion; and at the same time leave them to the mercy of the dragoons: -Was not this an heinous act? Had he been guilty of this single one only, (says Laval, in his excellent history of the Reformation of France, vol. 6.) it would have imprinted such a spot on his reputation, that all the waters of the Seine were not sufficient to wash it away. The edict of Nantz was granted to the reformed by Henry the 4th, in the 9th year of his reign, of grace 1598.179 [31] (31) Theodore Agrippa Aubigne, the favorite of Henry the 4th, was born in the year 1550, and died 1631, aged 80. He writ several curious things: but his great and principal work is his Universal History, in 3 toms folio: containing the transactions from 1550 to 1601. -This is a very extraordinary history, and contains many curious relations that are no where else to be found. -He was obliged to fly France on account of this history, and died at Geneva. -His two satyrs, called La Confession de Sancy-and Le Baron de Fœneste, are fine things. -The Avantures of the Baron de Fœneste, (du Chat's edition) are likewise well worth reading: The best edition is à Cologne, 1729, 2 vols. in 12 mo. -It is a very curious thing.180 Account of the author of the famous book de libe tate ecclesiastica.181 [32] (32.) The great Joseph Scaliger was born Aug. 4. 1544, and died at Leyden the 21st of January, in the 65th year of his age, A. D. 1609. His father, Julius Cæsar Scaliger, died in the 75th year of his age, October 21, 1558. His father was a papist: the son a protestant. They were both great men in the republic of letters, and both writ many books: but the son was by far the greatest man. What I like best of the father's works, are his poeticks. -His account of the Latin tongue---and his exercitations against Cardan. These are fine pieces. His problems on Aulus Gellius is likewise a good thing. The works of Joseph the son, are as follow- Commentarii in appendicem Virgilii. -Notæ in librum Varronis de re rustica.-Conjecturæ in Varronem de lingua Latina.-Castigationes in Valerium Flaccum. -Notæ in Tertullianum de Pallio, cum tractatur de equinoctiis.-Loci cujusdam Galeni difficillimi explicatio. -Elenchus Tribæresii Nicolai Serarii.-Confutatio ejusdem Serarii animadversorum in Scaligerum.---Castigationes et notæ in Eusebii chronica.-Thesaurus temporum. -Elenchus utriusque orationis chronologicæ Davidis Paræi.-Conjectanea de Nonni Dionystaticis.- Notæ in opera Ausonii.-Emendatio temporum.-Veterum Græcorum fragmenta.-Cyclometrica elementa duo. -Appendix ad Cyclometriam suam.-Ausoniarum lectionum libri duo.-Emendationes ad Theocriti, etc. Idyllia. -Notæ in Hippocratem.-Notæ et castigationes in Tibullum, Catullum, Propertium.-Epistolarum volumen. -Commentarii in Manilium.-Animadversiones in Melchioris Guillandini commentarium in tria Plinii de papyro capita.-Epistola adversus barbarum et indoctum poema patroni clientis Lucani.-Diatriba de decimis in lege Dei.-Notitia Galliæ.-Diatriba de Europæorum linguis, etc.-Judicium de quadam Thesi chronologica.-Expositio numismatis argenter Constantini imperatoris.-Orphei poetæ hymni sacri versibus antiquis Latine expressi.-Martialis select. epigram. Versiones Græce.-Sophoclis Ajax characteri vetere conversus. -In Æschyli Prometheum prologus. -Animadversiones in epigrammata, etc. Cornelii Galli.-Animadversiones in Cyclopem Euripidis.-Dionysius Cato cum nótis.-De equinoctiorum anticipatione diatriba.- Varia poemata Latina.-Poemata Græca versa ex Latino, etc.-Notæ in panegyricum ad Pisones. -Castigatio kalendarii Gregoriani.-Interpretatio proverbiorum Arabicorum cum scholiis.-De arte critica diatriba.- Notæ in novum testamentum.-Hyppoliti canon paschalis, cum commentariis.-De re nummaria dissertatio. -Discours de la jonction des mers, etc.- Discours sur milice Romaine.-Lettres touchant l'explication de quelques medailles.-Præfatio in origines linguæ Latinæ.-Scaligerana.-Epistola in Fabrium Paulinum.-Animadversiones in locos controversos Roberti Titii.---Vita Julii Cesaris Scaligeri cum epistola de vetustate et splendore gentis Scaligera. These are the works of Joseph Scaliger, and in them one meets with so various and fine an erudition, and so much valuable criticism, that if the reader of fortune will take my advice, he will get them all into his closet as soon as possible; and at the same time, the four excellent pieces I have mentioned of Julius Cesar Scaliger, the father of Joseph. N. B. The great Lewis Cappel, author of the assertion of the true faith, was a protestant minister at Saumur. He was born October 14, 1583, and died at Saumur, the 16th of June, 1568, aged 75. He was likewise the author of that excellent book called, Arcanum punctuationis revelatum; and of another very valuable thing, called Critica Sacra. His son, Jean Cappel, turned papist, and died a despicable apostate in the Romish church. N. B. There were two other Cappels, protestant ministers; both Jacques, who died in 1585---and 1624, and were the authors of several controversial writings against popery: but they were weak writers in respect of the learned Louis Cappel.182 An account of several subterranean chambers, and an ascent in the inside of a mountain from the bottom to the top.183 [33] (33.) In Penpark-hole you are let down by ropes fixed at the top of the pit, four fathom perpendicular, and then descend three fathom more, in an oblique way, between two rocks, which brings you to a perpendicular tunnel, 39 yards down, into which you descend by ropes, and land in a spacious chamber, that is 75 yards in length, 41 in breadth, and 19 yards high, from the margin of a great water, at the north end of it, to the roof. This water is 27 yards in length, 12 in breadth, and generally 16 deep. It is sweet, bright, and good drink. It rises sometimes several feet, and at other times sinks two feet below its usual depth. The torches always burn clear in this chamber, nor is the air in the least offensive, tho' 59 yards from the surface of the earth, and separated from the day by such deep tunnels, and an oblique descent between them. The great tunnel is about 3 yards wide, and in the south side of it 30 yards down, 9 yards before you come to the opening of the chamber, or cavity below, is a passage 32 yards in length, 3 and a half high, and 3 yards broad. It is the habitation of bats, and towards the end of it, a sloping hole goes to some other place. This passage, and the tunnels, and the chamber below, is all irregular work.184 1725. June 20. 8th day from my leaving Jack Price's.185 [34] (34.) Pools-hole, a little mile west of Buxton-wells in Derbyshire, is in the whole length, from the entrance to the farthest ascent, but 230 yards. The account of this in Camden is very imperfect, and next to nothing: and what the authors of the Tour through Great-Britain say of it, even in their 5th edition, in the year 1753, only shews to one who has been there, and carefully examined it, that neither Daniel Defoe, nor those since concerned in improving and correcting the four volumes of the Tour, ever were in the inside of Pool's-hole. Their description of this, like a thousand other places in those volumes, is mere imagination (with some things from Cotton's false account) and the fancy not only wrong, but very bad. -I would describe it here, but that the reader will find me in Derbyshire before I take my leave of him, if death does not prevent, and I shall then give a full and true history of this high and rough country; its waters, curiosities, and antiquities: - At present, I shall only observe, to abate the wonder of my passing from the bottom of the inside of one of the Richmond mountains to the plain on the top of it, that the hill in which is Pool's-hole is open within side, in the ascent, so far, that 5 yards more of aperture would bring one to the outside of the top: and I believe it is very possible for art to make an entrance that way, as nature has done at the bottom.186 We descended from the top of the mountain, we had travelled through, and arrive at Mr. Harcourt's house.187 My reception at Mr. Harcourt's house.188 A discourse with miss Harcourt in relation to my religion.189 [35] (35.) Little did I think when I talked in such a manner to Miss Harcourt against the famous symbol, that I should ever find in the book of a most learned man and excellent divine, the same kind of arguments seriously produced in favor of the Creed of St. Athanasius: yet this strange thing has time brought on, and thereby convinced the world, that the greatest learning and the most exalted piety, employed in the cause of mystery, can become so extravagant and erring as to mentain that a thing incomprehensible to human reason, can be revealed, and that the more incomprehensible it is to human reason, and the more senseless it appears to human understanding, the more glorious is the object of faith, and the more worthy to be believed by a christian. This deplorable argument for the truth of christianity I met with in a book lately published by an admirable man, Dr. Joseph Smith, provost of Queen's-college, Oxon. In his third section of a clear and comprehensive view of the being, nature, and attributes of God, from p. 61, to p. 78 the reader may see this plea for darkness, confusion, and implicit faith. He will find an answer to it in the appendix to this journal. No. 2.190 [36] (36.) The texts produced by Miss Harcourt, the next day, in a sheet of paper, she gave me, and my written explication of them in answer, the reader will find in the appendix to this journal, No. 3. I satisfied her, that the letter of scripture was not full in favor of contradiction, and that where it had any appearance of being so, reason allowed the purest modesty to use some freedom in interpreting, and take the texts in a lower meaning:- such a liberty as protestants take with the words ... this is my body ... when they reject the doctrine of transubstantiation. By this means I made a convert of her. This lady became a strict Christian-Deist.191 Mr. Harcourt's observation on our discourse, and generous offer to me.192 An account of Harriot Eusebia Harcourt.193 An account of Mrs. Harcourt's pictures of the Revelations of S. John.194 Pictures.195 Picture 2.196 Picture 3.197 [37] (37.) As the first notion of God's glory, in the scripture, is a physical notion, and signifies the manifestation of God, by fire, light, clouds, brightness, and other meteorous symbols, such as the marching pillars of fire and cloud that went before the Israelites, and the Shechinah in the Holy of Holies, which the Jews called the visible presence; so is there a glory of God in a moral signification. There is a Shechinah in a physical sense by fire, light, and refracted colours: and there is a moral Shechinah, or glory, when men live in obedience to all the divine laws, and walk as children of light. This shews the special presence of God in the righteous, as much as the cloud of glory did manifest him in the temple. The power and wisdom and goodness of God are displayed in the holy lives of men. Like the heavens they declare his glory, and are the visible epistle of Christ to the world, written not with ink, but with the spirit of the Living God. Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that his Spirit dwelleth in you?198 [38] (38.) As Mrs. Harcourt's pencil has illustrated the revelation of St. John, in a more satisfactory way than I have seen in any commentator, and gives in particular a striking view of popery in her pictures, I shall give the reader an account of the other pieces in another place. You will find them among other curious things in the appendix to this journal.199 Miss Harcourt's character.200 Her picture.201 1725. Our return to Ulubræ by a dangerous way.202 A fine chamber in a mountain, and a passage from the room to a valley on the other side of the vast precipice.203 An account of the inhabitants of the valley I came into.204 Miss Turner's character.205 Miss Jacquelot's character.206 My departure from Skelsmore-Vale.207 A morning reflexion on the rising sun, and the Great Spirit who created it.208 [39] The weakness of tradition. (39.) When the tribes went off from Noah in Peleg's days, in the æra of the deluge 240, that is, so many years after the flood, we must in reason suppose, that they had from the venerable patriarch, a final and farewel relation of the creation, and the state of innocency, and the fall; the institution of worship; and the hope of acceptance, and the promised seed. We may believe they had, at going off, a distinct repetition of all the capital articles of their faith. They received to be sure a clear review of the facts and revelations which Adam and Noah had the knowledge of, and in a compend of every doctrine and duty, speculative and practical, especially the doctrine of the being of a God, his unity and perfections, had a sufficient fund of useful knowledge to set up with, in the new world. This is natural behaviour in all good parents, and we may conclude, that the pious patriarch acted in this manner, when he sent his relations away. But this oral tradition was liable to a gradual declension, and sunk at last into a state of evanescence. Doctrines deduced from facts long since past, and known by tradition only, become precarious. The tradition is rendered obscure and dubious. It might remain pretty perfect, while Peleg, Reu, Serug, Nabor, and Terah, lived, as they had their informations from Noah, and were thoroughly advised to make God the object of their supreme love and fear, and trust and worship; and to practise all virtue and righteousness towards each other, as the great instruments and means of a general happiness. With an earnest tenderness, these things were recommended to them. But as the people who came after them never saw Noah, and their information depended on relators, who had it from relators, a dimness prevailed upon the antient facts, and distance and other objects overshadowed them. A depravation of tradition might likewise arise from relators forgetting material circumstances, and from a misapprehension of antient facts. There might likewise be many that designedly corrupted these facts, and out of a dislike to truth, and a distaste to virtue, did their best to weaken the principles of religion. Ingenious bad men there were among mankind then as well as in our time, and as there was no written system and history to go by, they might give the antient story a turn more favourable to sinners. By this means, contradiction and obscurity came on, endless fables were introduced, and truth was disguised, corrupted and lost. In respect however of an infinite mind, the author of the universe, it must be confessed that those men could not have lost a right notion of him, if they had been faithful to themselves: for the works of nature still remained in all their wondrous beauty, and useful order, and furnished daily evidence, that neither chance, nor undesigning necessity, could produce, the beautiful and harmonious, the regular and convenient, the amiable and good, which their eyes beheld whatever way they turned. Not only the heavens, the air, the earth, the sea, demonstrated the wisdom and goodness of God; but every beast, every fowl, every fish they could take, every plant and tree, shewed an exact proportion of parts, and discovered design in the whole of its constitution. Their own intelligence ought likewise to have led them to the great Original it was formed by, an uncreated mind. There must be a divine understanding, or there never could be pure intellection in man. It is impossible to solve the phænomena of moral entities, without the being of God. If it were possible for atoms, rencountring in an infinite void, to produce by collision and undirected impulse, the corporeal systems, and the various beauteous forms which we see; yet the wild and senseless hypothesis could not be applied by atheism itself to the production of ideas intirely independent of matter, and all its properties and powers. We must have them from an intelligent cause. The human mind is so framed, that we may surely infer the cause of the constitution was intelligent. So that God did not, in any age, leave himself without witness, or evidence, of his own being and perfection. We have full proof of creating, ruling intelligence. All the works of nature proclaim it, and especially the human soul. But through negligence, and false notions of religion brought in by impious men, corrupt customs, and prejudices of education, we find that not only virtue was lost, soon after the dispersion, but even the notion of God. Idolatry and wickedness prevailed for the greatest part of the grand period of tradition, from the dispersion to the imparting the knowledge of letters by Moses. This shews the folly, vanity, and inconsistency of all tradition, and that for the support of virtue, and true religion in the world, a written word is necessary. In the early ages of the postdiluvian world, religious knowledge was decayed, and we can trace the origin and beginning of idolatry very high. Even in Serug's time, (who had received a compend of religion from Noah), when he became infirm by years, and was no longer able to inspect the manners of his colony, and go about to take cognizance of their irregularities, we find the innovation had begun. We read in the books, that Terah, the father of Abraham was an idolater, in the 170th year of his age, which was the year that Serug died, and to be sure, that was not the first year of his false religion: and it is not to be supposed, that when he went forth, a worshiper of false gods, from Ur of the Chaldees, with Abraham, his son, and Lot, etc. that the young people were safe from the infection. It prevailed before Abraham was warned to withdraw, and of consequence he was one of the ungodly, that is an idolater. To me it is plain St. Paul says so. They all served other gods. In all probability, that was beginning to be the case when Abraham was born, which was in the year after the flood 352; and as he was forty years old when his father marched him from Ur, we may think he was then a settled idolater: and if it had not been that the divine mercy called him by revelation to true religion, he and the whole world might have remained in their gross innovation, eternal strangers to the original truths. The free grace of the universal Father took him and his posterity into covenant, and used them as a mean to restore true piety and virtue to the world, till such time as he was pleased to shew his astonishing mercy, and inestimable love in Christ Jesus. The Creator and Governor of Gentiles as well as Jews, in his infinite wisdom, proceeded in this manner, first selecting one nation to be a beacon upon a hill, a public voucher of the being and providence of God; and in the fulness of time, blessing the human race with a gospel and Redeemer. Adored be his goodness then for the written word. This only can preserve the doctrine of religion free from corruption. The miserable papists may trust to their traditions, and wander where no covenant is to be found: but the religion of protestants must be the gospel of Christ. The written doctrine of the apostles let us receive. The unwritten word of Rome let us despise. There is no security in tradition. It is insufficient for the preservation of truth: and for that reason, God gave us the writings of inspired men.209 A delightful landscape betwixt the mountains.210 A pretty country seat.211 A strange meeting.212 A passage I chanced to turn to in a Greek author.213 Mr. Berrisfort's kind reception of me.214 Manner of living at Yeoverin-Green.215 Characters of Mr. Berrisfort, his sister, and Miss Fox.216 The daring spirit of Miss Berrisfort in hunting.217 An account of two falls in the field.218 A religious conversation between Bob Berrisfort and Jack Buncle.219 An apology for true christianity.220 [40] (40.) Erasmus, Grotius, Limborch, Baxter, and Dodwell, were great and excellent men, and their lives and writings very highly merit the consideration of gentlemen. Erasmus was born at Rotterdam, October 28, in the year 1466, and died of a bloody flux at Basil, the 12th of July, in the year 1536, aged 70. Joh. Manlius in locorum communium collectaneis. Edit. Francf. ad Mæn. in 8. 1568. has this passage: - Erasmus Roterodamus moriturus sæpe ingeminavit hanc vocem, Domine, Domine fac finem, fac finem, sed quid voluerit dicere non possum. Manlius was with Erasmus in his last hour. Froben published an edition of all the works of Erasmus at Bale, in nine volumes in folio, in 1540. The first, second, and fourth, contain his philosophical, rhetorical, and grammatical pieces, his colloquies, and praise of folly: the third, his epistles, which are very fine, and many of them relate to the affairs of the church: the fifth, his books of piety: the sixth, his version of the New Testament, with notes: the seventh, his paraphrases on the New Testament: the eighth, his translations of some Greek fathers: the ninth, which is the largest, his apologies. His New Testament, letters, and colloquies, are the most valuable of his works. The preface to his paraphrase on the gospel of St. Matthew is an admirable thing. An English translation of it, with notes, and a good preliminary discourse addressed to the catholics, was printed for Cooper in Pater-noster Row, 1749. Bayle says of Erasmus, that he was one of those witnesses for the truth, who were wishing for a reformation in the church, but who did not think it was to be procured by erecting another society to be supported by leagues, and that should pass immediately a verbis ad verbera, from words to blows. Erasmus speaking of his contemporary Luther, says, -had all that he wrote been good, his seditious freedom would still have been disagreeable to me. I would rather submit to some errors than raise a civil war, and put the whole world in an uproar for the sake of truth. But in vain did Erasmus live and die in the Romish communion, and undergo many reflexions from some zealot protestants; he was not the less ill treated both during his life, and after his death, by several catholic writers; for, tho' taking all things together, Erasmus was what they called a catholic; yet his colloquies shew his hatred of the monks, and it was plain from his writings and behaviour, that he did not see without joy the first steps of Luther. His inscription at Rotterdam is this: Desiderio Erasmo Magno scientiarum atque literaturae politioris vindici et instauratori viro sui sæculi primario Civi omnium præstantissimo Ac nominis immortalitatem Scriptis Æviternis Jure consecuto. S. P. Q. Rotterdam. Ne quod tantis apud se suosque Posteros virtutibus præmium Deesset Statuam hanc ex ære publico Erigendam curaverunt. Barbariæ talem se debellatur Erasmus    Maxima laus Batavi nominis ore tulit Reddidit En! Fatis ars obluctata sinistris,    De tanto spolium nacta quod urna viro est Ingenii coeleste jubar majusque caduco    Tempore qui reddat solus Erasmus erit. The following epitaph is on a marble stone in the cathedral at Basil, where he was buried. Christo servatori. s. Des. Erasmo Rotterodamo. Viro Omnibus modis maximo, cujus incomparabilem in omni disciplinarum genere eruditionem pari conjunctam prudentia posteri et admirabuntur et prædicabunt; bonifacius amerbachius, Hier. Frobenius, Nic. Episcopius, hæredes et Nuncupati supremæ suæ voluntatis Vindices, patrono optimo non memoriæ quam immortalem sibi editis lucubrationibus comparavit, iis tantisper dum orbis terrarum stabit superfuturo ac eruditis ubique gentium colloquu turo, sed corporis mortalis quo Reconditum sit ergo hoc Saxum posuere. Mortuus est iv. E I D. Jul. Jam septuagenarius, ann. a Christo nato M.D.XXXVI. Above this epitaph is the device and seal of Erasmus, to wit, TERMINUS, the god of bounds, and the words- Concedo Nulli. The most learned men of Europe did likewise write epitaphs on Erasmus. Cognatus, that is, Gilbert le Cousin made the following one- Magnus Roterodamus ille noster Hæc quo sæcula neminem tulerunt Majorem, neque prisca clariorem Norunt tempora, nec cui futura Parem posteritas habebit: ecce Sub hoc marmore mortuus quiescit. But that of Louis Masius is one of the most ingenious: Fatalis series nobis invidit Erasmum;    Sed Desiderium tollere non potuit. Reader, tho' the edition of the works of Erasmus which I have mentioned is a good one, yet that of Le Clerc in 11 volumes folio, at Leyden, in 1703, is much finer. Grotius, the son of Jean de Groot was born at Delft in Holland, the 10th of April, 1583, and died at Rostock in Mecklenbourgh, Sept. 8, 1645, aged 62. He writ the following books- Annotationes in totam scripturam sacram. -De jure belli ac pacis, libri tres.-De veritate religionis christianæ, libri sex. -Mare liberum against Selden's mare clausum.-De antiquitate reipublicæ Batavicæ. -De imperio summarum potestatum circa sacra.-Annales et historiæ de rebus Belgicis.-Historia Gothorum, Vandalorum et Longobardorum.-Annotationes in totam scripturam sacram.-De satisfactione Christi adversus Socinum.-Apologeticus.-Poemata.- Pietas ordinum Hollandiæ.-De cœnæ administratione ubi pastores non sunt.-An semper communicandum sit per symbola.-Epistolæ, etc.-Portuum investigandorum ratio.-Syntagma arateorum.-Notæ in Lucani Pharsalium.-Florilegium Stobæi.-Notæ breves ad jus Justinianum.-Notæ breves et emendationes in Cornelium Tacitum.-Pontifex Romanus, rex Galliarum, rex Hispaniarum, Albertus cardinalis, regina Angliæ, Omnes fœderati.-Adamus exul et Christus patiens. There is a great deal of fine learning in these books: but the most valuable of them are the three first mentioned. His annotations-De jure-and, truth of the Christian religion, cannot be sufficiently praised, nor enough admired. A late writer of this great man's life, (De Burigny, a bigotted papist) says, Grotius died a member of the church of Rome, and in a sad and ridiculous manner strains some lines of this excellent writer to prove it. - He was to be sure one of those moderate protestants, who wished there could be a reconciliation between Rome and us:-and the very hard measure he had from the protestant government of his country, while he was treated by the Romish princes with the highest honours and encouragements, were great temptations to leave the reformed: but he never did turn papist, whatever this hot Romish biographer may affirm. Vossius, and Reigersberg, his brother-in-law, writ to him upon the subject, and he answered them in the following manner. -Puisque j'ai eu assez de courage, pour souffrir la prison, je supporterai aussi l'exil, la pauvreté, & le mepris, a l'imitation de celui qui aima mieux souffrin avec le peuple de Dieu, qu'etre appellé le fils de la fille de Pharaon. This was to Vossius.- and then to Reigersberg. -Je repons ouvertment a ceux qui me parlent de religion que j'adhere toujours aux eglises dont j'etois membre avant mon emprisonnement. D'ailleurs j'ai soins de ne point offenser ceux de l'Eglise Romaine, & d'entretenir une bonne correspondence avec ceux qui le sonhaitent. -This demonstrates that Grotius did not turn: and for farther satisfaction, see G. Brandt. hist. de la reformation. tom. 2. p. 307. -What epithet then does that papist De Burighy deserve? The great and good R. Baxter was a nonconformist divine, who suffered much by the severity of that cruel monster of a man, lord chief justice Jefferies, in a prosecution, in Easter Term, 1685, on account of some passages in his paraphrase on the New Testament. He was confined in the King's-Bench prison from the beginning of the year 1685, to the 24th of November 1686; when, by the mediation of Lord Powis, he obtained a pardon from King James, and was discharged out of prison. The passages picked out by Sir Roger l'Estrange, were his explications of Matth. v. 19.-Mark ix. 39.-Mark xi. 31.-Mark xii. 38, 39, 40.- Luke x. 2.-John xi. 57. and Acts xv. 2. Dr. South likewise, (as I have heard) put into his enemies hands some accusations out of Rom. xiii. The charge was, that his paraphrase on these places reflected on the prelates of the church of England, and so he was guilty of sedition: but equity at this day can find no such reflexion or sedition in the passages. Mr. Baxter was born November 12, 1615, at Rowton in South Bradford: and died at his house in Charter-house-yard, the 8th of December, 1691, aged 76. He was an author 52 years, and in that time writ 145 distinct treatises; whereof four were folios, 73 quartos, 49 octavos, and 19 in twelves and twenty-fours; besides single sheets, separate sermons, and prefaces before other men's writings. He began with aphorisms of justification, in 1649, in his 34th year; and ended with the certainty of the world of spirits, in 1691; the year he died. Few can be persuaded, I imagine, in these days of pleasure, in this age of Vauxhalls and Ranelaghs *A remark on our little Vauxhalls. * Beside the two grand seats of pleasure, which are filled every evening with coaches full of love and laughter; and Cuper's Gardens; there are several little Vauxhalls, and dancing-rooms in the gardens, where people of both sexes, of low and middling condition, assemble together, to their destruction in all respects. Here the ruin of many an honest tradesman's daughter commences; and from being men of pleasure at these places, idle young fellows come by degrees to the gallows. Their morals are here corrupted: their time is wasted: and money must be got some way or other, to answer the expences. What must become of us, when high and low, rich and poor, fly from themselves, and laugh at every thing serious; run into every extravagance and vanity, and wanton life away in dissipations and diversions? A word of advice to the rich and gay. For shame, rationals, stop. Consider what ye are. You are beings endued with reason, to the end you may pursue the true happiness of rational nature, and by a truth and rectitude of life, unite yourselves to the supreme, inexhaustible fountain of all rational, intellectual and durable good. You are likewise accountable creatures, standing on the brink of death, resurrection, and judgment; and when this fleeting scene of vanity is over, moral impotence, or natural weakness, as they are now called, will not be accepted as a plea for the offender against nature and reason: for, let reason be heard, and spend some hours of your every day, in reading good books, and in the closet in prayer, with a resolution to do your best to live as you pray, and that power, which darkens the understanding, enslaves the will, and obstructs the operations of conscience, you may easily remove. You will despise every gratification against truth, and delight in being useful and pious here, that you may secure eternal happiness in some future world. Ponder then, rationals, in time. As you are placed here in a mutable condition, capable of bliss and misery;-to be made confirmed blessed spirits above, when the time of probation is over, if you have kept the commandments of God;-or, to live with Lucifer and the apostates for ever in darkness and woe, if you have not fought the good fight, and kept the faith;-therefore, do all that piety and goodness can do in this life. Resolve by the advice of the gospel, and let nothing in nature be able to divert the execution, but a countermand from the same authority. I speak to the rich and gay that frequent Vauxhall and Ranelagh; for as to the people who resort to the six-penny gardens, they are incapable of being advised: the women there are for the most part street whores, and the greatest part of the men, pickpockets and gamblers: nor do they keep themselves sober; for, the last time I looked into one of their dancing-rooms, (to see how it was with my kind, at 9 o'clock at night, as I was walking home), I saw some of the men suddled, -fighting for the women; and several unhappy girls, so drunk, they could not stand. The whole was a sad scene. But you, who are great, honourable, and rational, may be called on, I suppose, to stop every wandering or illicit thought, every inconsiderate word, and to bring every intended action before the supreme bar of righteous and impartial reason. You may, perhaps, remember what I beg leave to tell you, that you live under a three-fold duty to God, to your neighbours, and to yourselves: and of consequence, that you must flee all those pleasures, diversions, and alienations of mind, which usually obstruct the love of God, his fear, and honour:-that you must have no immoderate desires; which may tempt you to violate the laws of justice and charity:-and in the regimen of yourselves, that you must observe a strict moderation and temperance, and make your whole life an oblation, and submission to the will of God. This advice I humbly offer to those spiritual, intelligent, immortal beings, who waste their precious hours at Ranelagh and Vaux-hall, and in routs and spectacles, and every species of plays and sports, frolick it all the long day. , to sit down to read all that Baxter writ: but most certainly, the following books in English, of his composing, are very good ones: -The saints everlasting rest. A call to the unconverted. -Dying thoughts -certainty of the world of spirits: and his paraphrase on the New Testament. His Latin pieces are these De catechisatione domestica. -Aphorismi de justificatione et fœderibus.-Apologia. -Libellus rationum pro religione christiana contra Gassendum et Habesium.-Epistola de generali omnium protestantium unione adversus papatum.-Dissertatio de baptismo infantium.-Directiones de reformatione ecclesiæ.-De religione Grotiana adversus Piercium. -De jure sacramentorum.-Gildas Salvianus, sive pastor reformatus.-Catechismus quackerianus.- Clavis catholicorum.-De regimine ecclesiæ.-De universali redemptione contra Calvinum et Bezam.- De rep. sancta.-Historia conciliorum. Philip de Limborch, a remonstrant divine, and professor of theology, was born the 19th of June, 1633, and died the last day of April, 1712, aged 79. The christian world is greatly obliged to this learned and excellent man for the following fine books by him written. 1. Systeme complet de la theologie, that is, a body of divinity; which has been translated into English. 2. Collatio amica de veritate religionis christianæ, cum erudito Judæo. -At the end of this, is an account of Uriel Acosta, a Portuguese deist, who had been a Jew, and Limborch's defence of christianity against Acosta's objections. This remarkable life and defence of reveled religion were translated into English in the year 1740, and makes a shilling pamphlet, which you may get at Mr. Whiston's shop. But the collatio has not been published in English by any one: at least I never saw such a thing: and for this reason, I have begun a translation of it, and intend to finish it, with many notes on the arguments of the two disputants; if death, or sickness, does not hinder. Mr. Chandler's translation of Limborch's history of the inquisition. 3. L'Histoire de ce terrible tribunal l'inquisition; that is, the history of the inquisition. This was translated into English by Mr. Samuel Chandler, a dissenting minister; who prefixed, in an introduction, a history of persecution, that cannot be sufficiently praised, or enough admired. The history and introduction were published in a large quarto, London, 1731: and the introduction was afterwards printed in octavo. Account of some other pieces written by Mr. Chandler. This gentleman is still living, and greatly to be honoured, on account of several other excellent writings, in defence of the true gospel of Christ, and true piety: his vindication of the history of the Old Testament against Dr. Morgan. -His discourse of the nature and use of miracles; and answer to Mr. Collins's grounds-His re-examination of the witnesses of the resurrection ** Reader, on the subject called the resurrection of Jesus, read first bishop Sherlock's trial of the witnesses, and Tipping's defence of the trial: then take up Mr. Chandler's piece; and when you have seriously read it, see what the bishop of Rochester, Dr. Pearce, says on this subject in the first part of his four discourses on the miracles; add to them, Grove's sermon on the resurrection; and I imagine, these fine little pieces will give you satisfaction: if a doubt should still remain, open Mr. West's fine book on the article, and I think you will be easy as to this point. Reduce the strength of what they all say to a few written arguments, and keep them for use. . - His commentary on Joel-His two sermons called the notes of the church, in the second volume of the Salters-Hall sermons against popery-His sermon on superstition: and two funeral sermons: one on the death of Dr. Hadfield, For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Rom. vi. 23. -The other on the death of Mr. Smyth. Who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is able to subdue all things to himself. Phil. iii. 21. -These are fine pieces; well written; with a sense and spirit, that renders all Mr. Chandler's performances very valuable; and therefore, they highly merit the attentive reading of every gentleman. Some other things written by this minister, I mentioned in my memoirs of several ladies of Great-Britain, p. 73. to which I refer you, reader. 4. Commentarius in acta apostolorum et in epistolas ad Romanos et Hebraeos. Folio. This is one of the most valuable books in christian learning;-strong and beautiful; just and rational. Let it stand next your bible in your study, and when you sit down to the acts of the apostles, and the epistles to the Romans and Hebrews, let Limborch's commentary be open before you, and you will be improved and charmed. Of Dr. Syke's writings. Let me likewise advise you, reader, to open, at the same time, Dr. Sykes on the Hebrews; a glorious performance; and his most excellent book on redemption: these two have been published very lately. Dr. Sykes is a divine. By the way, his essay upon the truth of the christian religion, is one of the best, (if not the best) of all the good things that have been published for revelation; and his connexion and discourse on the miracles, are admirable. See likewise his Essay on sacrifices-his true foundations of natural and reveled religion-his two defences of Clarke's exposition of the catechism-his phlegon.--- his two previous questions---and defence of the two questions of Dr. Middleton against Dr. Chapman, Dr. Church, and Mr. Dodwell. These, and all his pieces, are delightful, useful learning. They illustrate revelation, and give a just and charming account of the christian religion. Limborch writ some other small things, as letters, prefaces, and essays, and among his letters, those to Mr. Locke are excellent: that on liberty or power was too much even for Locke. But the best letter he writ to Mr. Locke has not yet been published, to wit, a letter that gives the history of his arguments used in bringing back an ingenious lady to christianity, who had been converted to judaism. It has been seen by several; but what is become of it, no one can tell. Of Courcelles and Episcopius. In 1675, Limborch published the valuable works of his master Etienne de Courcelles, an Arminian divine.- and in 1693, the sermons of the great Episcopius, in a large folio; to which he prefixed not only a fine preface, but a long and curious history of the life of Episcopius. The life was afterwards translated into Latin, and may be had in octavo. It is an admirable thing. Courcelles was born in the year 1586, and died the 29th of May, 1659, aged 73. He succeeded Simon Episcopius as pastor to the church of the remonstrants in Holland, and was succeeded in that charge by Arnold Poelemburg; who writ his life. This life is an excellent thing, but is only to be found at the beginning of his works, published, as before said, by Limborch, in 1675. The best thing of Courcelles is his quaternio dissertationum theologicarum: in which he treats, as an able, rational divine, of the trinity, original sin, the knowledge of Jesus Christ, and justification. -The next in value to this, are his institutiones religionis christianæ: -Diatribe de esu sanguinis:-vindiciæ contra Amyraldum: and avis d'un personnage desinteresse; in which he acted the Mediator between the Calvinists and Arminians; but without success. It is a vain attempt to unite parties. Every party is a church, and infallible in its own conceit. Happy they that are of no party; but devoted to Jesus Christ only, and his plane gospel; doing their best to be pure and good, even as the Lord Jesus Christ was pure and good-and worshiping God the Father Almighty, in the name of Jesus, as his disciples; without speculating, inventing, or perplexing ourselves with imaginations. This was our Lord's direction. When you pray, say, Our Father- whatever ye ask in my name-without holiness no man shall see the Lord. Here it is, gentlemen of the laity, as the doctors call us, and will have us to be an inferior tribe to them. Adhere to these few, plain things, and you will be for ever happy, tho' the church damns you by bell, book, and candle-light. Simon Episcopius, a remonstrant minister at Rotterdam, a glorious man, was born in the year 1583, and died of a retention of urine, the 4th of April, 1643, aged 60. His excellent works are three large volumes in folio. Two, in the purest Latin, published by Stephanus Curcellæus, whom I have given an account of in the preceding article,-and by Arnoldus Poelenburgh, his successor. And the third containing his sermons, and life by Limborch, as I have said before. Arnoldus Poelenburgh died in the year 1667, and Limborch succeeded him in the pastoral care of his church. Arnold was a learned, eloquent, and pious man. His dissertatio epistolaris contra Hoornbeekium-and his examen Thesium Spanhemii, are fine things. His preface to the second volume of Episcopius's theological works, is excellent: and in a valuable book called epistolæ præstantium virorum, you will find many letters by Poelenburgh, that are extremely beautiful, in respect of the charms of his stile, and his judicious manner of treating his subjects. Of Dodwell and his writings. And now as to the learned and pious Henry Dodwell, some time fellow of Trinity-College, Dublin, and Camden professor of history in Oxon, till he lost it for refusing to take the oaths to King William; he was born at Dublin, October 1641, and died at Shottesbrooke, the 7th of June, 1711, aged 70. His works are the following books-1. Prolegomena ad tractatum Joannis Stearnii de constantia in rebus adversis. - 2. Two letters of advice on going into holy orders, and theological studies, with a tract concerning Sanchoniatho. -3. Considerations of present concernment, how far the Romanists may be trusted by princes of another persuasion. -4. An account of the fundamental principle of popery, and an answer to six queries proposed to a lady by a Romish priest. -5. Separation of churches from episcopal government schismatical, and a defence of it. - 6. Dissertations on St. Cyprian. -7. A dissertation on a passage of Lactantius. -8. A treatise of the priesthood of laicks. -9. Additional discourses to the posthumous works of Dr. Pearson, by Dodwell published. - 10. Dissertations on Irenæus. -11.A vindication of the deprived bishops, (Sancroft, Lloyd, Turner, Kenn, Frampton, White; to whom suceeeded Tillotson, Moore, Patrick, Kidder, Fowler, Cumberland); and a defence of the vindication. ---12. Four Camdenian lectures, called, prælectiones academica. -13. The annals of Velleius Paterculus, etc. -An account of the lesser geographers. -15. The lawfulness of church musick. -16. An account of the Greek and Roman cycle. -17. A letter against Toland, relative to the canon of the New Testament. -18. The annals of Thucydides and Zenophon: and an apology for the philosophical works of Cicero. -19. A letter on the soul to Mr. Layton- and a letter to Dr. Tillotson on schism. -20. Two dissertations on the age of Phalaris and Pythagoras. - 21. An admonition to foreigners concerning schism. - 22. An epistolary discourse to prove the soul a principle naturally mortal, but immortalized by its union with the divine baptismal spirit;-that the bishops only can give this immortalizing spirit; and that sacerdotal absolution is necessary for the remission of sins. -23. Three treatises in defence of the epistolary discourse. These are the works of the learned Dodwell. Some of the pieces are very valuable: -Many of them good for nothing: and all of them written with great perplexity; without any beauty of stile, or any order. Dodwell's learning was very great, but beside the singularity of his notions, (which he affected), his learning lay like a lump of puzzeled silk in his head, and he could draw few useful threads. In the 2d volume of this journal, and in the 2d volume of the memoirs of some ladies of Great-Britain, the reader will find several remarks on Dodwell's pieces. Note, in the 52d year of Mr. Dodwell's age, he married a very young girl, the daughter of a gentleman, in whose house he boarded in the country; having been her preceptor for five years, from a regard to her fine understanding; and by her had ten children. Two sons and four daughters survived him, and one of the sons is the present rector of Shottesbrook, well known by the title of orthodox Dodwell, on account of his writings for the fathers against Dr. Middleton; and to distinguish him from the author of a bad book, finely written, called, christianity not founded on argument.221 [41] (41.) Let me recommend to you, reader, two large volumes written in an epistolary form: the first is, Sentimens de quelques theologiens de Hollande sur l'histoire critique du Vieux Testament, et de Nouveau Testament, par P. R. Simon, and Defense des sentimens contre Bolville. These are fine books: my reason for mentioning them here is, that the 11th and 12th letters, in the first volume, called Sentimens, etc. is on the inspiration of the sacred writers;-and the 10th and 11th letters of the second volume, called A defence, etc. is a continuation of the subject in a very extraordinary manner, that is, by giving a solid demonstration of the truth of our religion, without interesting it in this controversy; that is, that the christian religion is true, tho' the apostles had not been continually inspired. Note, reader, these five letters were translated into English in 1690, and make a very little 12ves, that sells for five shillings. -The two first letters, that is, the 11th and 12th of Sentimens, were printed lately in a new translation, (I think for Cooper) a shilling pamphlet. Le Clerc was the author of these two books. I gave an account of him, and his writings, in my memoirs of some ladies of Great Britain, etc. p. 356-358. Note, reader, the famous Father Richard Simon, a priest of the oratory, who writ l'histoire critique, was born at Dieppe, the 13th of May, 1638, and died at the same place, April 7, 1712. He was the author of many other learned works, which a general reader ought to be no stranger to: but I can only recommend to a friend the lettres choises de M. Simon-his bibliotheque critique -Nouvelle bibliotheque choisie. There is a great deal of curious learning in these pieces, mixed with a great deal of prejudice. Simon was a great man, and bad (in respect of the design) as his histoire critique is, it is a most learned work, and of great use to those who have heads fit to use it. Note, Herman Witsius, mentioned in my memoirs of the ladies, p. 357. (who defended Simon in his miscellanea sacra, by abusing Le Clerc), was a doctor of divinity, and professor of the faculty at Franeker, natus Feb. 12, 1626, denatus, Octob. 22, 1708. aged 82. Beside his miscellanea sacra, he published oeconomia fœderum, etc.-exercitationes sacræ in orationem dominicum: -And Ægyptiaca. If like me, reader, you have nothing else to do but to read, I advise you to read them as curious things: there is learning, tho' not much good in them. See M. Mark's funeral oration on Witsius. Simon's Eloge you will find in journal litter. tom. 3. p. 225. -And if you have a critical head, I recommend to you Father Simon's dissertation critique against Du Pin's nouvelle bibliotheque des auteurs ecclesiastiques: It is an arch piece of criticism, tho' it does not hurt Du Pin's bibliotheque. Note, the learned and excellent Louis Ellies Du Pin, author of the valuable bibliotheque ecclesiastique, was born June 17, 1657, and died at Paris, June 16, 1719, aged 62. He writ many other excellent works: but this bibliotheque nouvelle des auteurs ecclesiastique, from Jesus Christ to the year 1710, in 35 volumes in 8vo, is the principal labour of his life. -The best edition in English of this fine work, is that of Grierson in Dublin in Folio. The other works of Du Pin are these-Dissertation preliminaire ou prolegomenes sur la bible, en trois volumes, in 8vo.-De antiqua ecclesiæ disciplina, in seven dissertations.-De la puissance ecclesiastique et temporelle.-La doctrine chretienne et orthodoxe.-Notes on the pentateuch.-Les pseaumes en Latin, et des notes in 8vo.-Version François des psaumes, avec des notes.-A defence of his notes on the psalms. - A folio edition of the works of Optatus Aser (Milevi in Numidia episc. qui clar. an. 368.) and to this edition is prefixed Du Pin's history of the Donatists (a very curious thing), and the sacred geography of Africa. - A new edition of Gerson's works in five tomes folio; to which he joined a work of his own, called Gersoniana; a very curious and valuable thing, which contains the life of Gerson, the history of his times, and the doctrines and lives of contemporary authors. -Critique sur l'histoire d' Apollonius de Tyranne.-Une lettre sur l'ancienne discipline touchant la messe.- Un traite de l'excommunication-Une histoire de l'eglise en abrege-Une histoire profane depuis les tems les plus reculez jusqu'a present.-Une analyse de l'Apocalypse, avec de dissertations sur differentes matieres curieuses.-Une histoire du xvii siecle.-Un traite de l'amour de Dieu.-Bibliotheque des historiens profanes: but of this last work he never published more than two volumes, which have been translated into English: and so far as he did go, is so well done, that it is to be lamented, he did not finish his noble design. -As to his edition of Basnage's histoire des Juifs, without mentioning the name of Basnage, and his making many alterations in it, contrary to its author's mind, it brought on him a severe castigation from Basnage; as I mentioned in my account of Basnage's writings in my first volume of the memoirs of several ladies of Great-Britain, p. 350; where I referred the reader to a fine piece, called, histoire des Juifs reclame, par Jacqueus Basnages. Note: next to the bibliotheque des auteurs ecclesiastiques, the best books of Du Pin are, his seven dissertations de antiqua disciplina ecclesiæ: which is one Latin volume in 4to:-and his puissance ecclesiastique et temporelle: one volume in 8vo. In these volumes, he works the pope in a fine manner, as to supremacy and infallibility.222 No contradiction in St. Mark's and St. John's account of the crucifixion.223 The testimony of St. Matthew and St Mark's accounts of the resurrection of Jesus.224 [42] (42.) Long since my conversation with Mr. Berrisfort, I have seen an excellent book, written by the learned minister of Maybole, in which he labours, through several 4 to pages, from p. 213, to reconcile Mark and Matthew, by virtue of a second visit to the monument by Mary Magdalene, when the Lord appeared first to her;-and a second visit to the sepulchre by the other women, when Jesus appeared next to those women; and, in my opinion, he has proved it, beyond a possibility of rational reply. See Mr. Macknight's harmony. Le Clerc, in his harmony, does likewise evince the thing.225 [43] (43) For further Satisfaction on this Article, and to be convinced that the books of the New Testament, as we now have them, are the word of God, see, reader, the sacred classics-and Jones's method of settling the canonical authority of the Testament. By the way, if Jacob Ilive, who stood in the pillory, the 30th of June, 1756, for writing and publishing a thing called, Modest remarks on the bishop of London's sermons (Dr. Sherlock) in a letter to his lordship, price 1 s. 6 d. had read with attention the books I have mentioned, (and Dr. Lardner's credibility of the gospel-history) he would not, I imagine, have composed a pamphlet, that manifests not only an impious licentiousness, but an ignorance the greatest and most despicable, in relation to the subjects he pretended to write on. The reader will find in my Appendix to this Journal, among other curious Things, some strictures on Mr. Ilive's letter.226 [44] (44) Let us now see (says a great man and upright christian) what use the enemies of christianity have endeavoured to make of the prophecies, as the evangelists apply them; and what answer the truth of the case will oblige us to give to them. They assert that the foundation of the christian religion is laid by the evangelists, on the proof of this point, that the mission and character of Jesus were foretold by the prophets; and that the validity of this proof depends intirely on the force of those particular prophecies which the same evangelists have applied to the illustration of it, in their several gospels. Upon this hypothesis, the enemy undertakes to shew, that the prophecies, so applied by them, do not at all relate to Jesus, in their proper and literal signification, but only in secondary, typical, and figurative sense: but then this way of interpreting them is equivocal, precarious, and incapable of yielding any rational satisfaction; and of consequence christianity has no foundation. Such is the use the enemy make of the prophecies applied by the evangelists. In truth, if we admit that christianity has no other foundation than what the enemy assign it, it might not perhaps be difficult for them to make good the rest: for upon that supposition, many objections are thrown in our way, which it is scarce possible to get rid of. But while they fancy themselves to be demolishing foundations, they are battering only such parts of the edifice, as serve for its ornaments rather than its support: and had the enemy gone farther, and shewn that some of the prophecies cited by Matthew did not relate to Jesus in any sense at all, they would have done no more than what some of the primitive fathers, as well as modern critics had done before them, without designing or doing the least hurt to christianity. Jesus declared in general, that Moses and the prophets had testified of him: but since the evangelists did not think it necessaay to give a precise account, or deduction of the several prophecies, which were alleged by him in proof of that declaration; it is sufficient to take it, just as we find it; without thinking ourselves obliged to defend all the particular instances or applications, which were offered afterwards in support of it by fallible men. Mr. Whiston, in his literal accomplishment of the scripture prophecies, has produced 45 prophecies from the Old Testament, which are cited in the New, in proof of the Messiahship of Jesus, and which he declares to have been clearly and directly fulfilled, without the least pretence of any reply from any author whatsoever. Now if any number of these, how small soever, are found to be as clearly accomplished, as he takes them to be, they are sufficient to support the authority of the gospel, tho' all the rest were thrown aside. But to say the truth, the grounds of our faith, in these latter ages of the church, do not lie in the particular interpretations of prophecies, made by men, who might be mistaken, and who, as Jerome ** St. Jerome is one of the four great doctors of the Latin church, who support the magnificent bronze chair of St. Peter, in this saints church in Rome. -The other three doctors are St. Augustin, St. Ambrose, St. Gregory. Great might be the piety of those doctors, for any thing I can say to the contrary: but this is certain, from their writings, that they did not understand christianity. In my memoirs of several ladies of Great-Britain, vol. I. p. 329. I gave an account of St. Augustin's works, and observed that this great saint was born in Africa, November 13, 354, in the reign of Constance -and died August 28, 430. at Hippo. -Ætat. 76. St. Jerome was born at Stridon, in Dalmatia, in the year 340.-and died in the year 420. aged 80. -There is a good edition of his works in 9 volumes folio. Paris 1623. But the later edition of Martianay, the Benedictin, is much finer and more valuable. St. Jerome was a hot, abusive man, and quarrelled even with St. Augustin. In his disputes, he is more like a madman than a faint, and ever in the wrong. He writ comments on all the prophets, Ecclesiastes, St. Matthew, and the epistles to the Galatians, Ephesians, Titus, and Philemon; but they are sad stuff in respect of some modern performances. Compare them with the comments of Dr. Clarke, Mr. Locke, Dr. Benson, and others of our country, and you will see what a poor creature this saint was in respect of our English divines and philosophers. He translated the Old Testament into Latin from the Hebrew; without understanding the Hebrew well: and he corrected the antient Latin version of the New Testament. This is far from being correct, tho' the church of Rome has decreed it to be infallible, and appointed it to be used in the church. -The best and most useful thing this saint writ is his treatise of illustrious men; which contains a summary of the lives and the titles of the books, written by ecclesiastical authors, to his time. The next in worth to this, in my opinion, is his book of letters; in which are several fine moral sentiments, and much good advice; tho' his criticisms on the bible in this work are weak enough. -He will have it, that it was wisdom, and not a young woman, that David took into bed to him, when he was old and cold; which is a mere fancy, that plainly contradicts the history of that affair in the bible. But Jerome abhorred a woman, as much as Mrs. Astel did a man: and detested and blackened matrimony and a wife, to extol and exalt that whim of his brain, virginity. With detestation (he owns), he beheld every big bellied woman, (the finest sight in the world) tho' rendered so in the holy matrimonial bed, and could not bear looking at her, but as he reflected, that she carried a virgin, So he tells us in his letters; and of consequence, a fit supporter of St. Peter's chair. St. Ambrose is the next supporter and saint. He was born at Treves in the year 340.-and died the 4th of April 397. -Aged 57. This holy prelate was a great contender for tritheism and the rights of the church, and writ many worthless pieces for them and persecution. He acted an insolent and senseless part, in the case of the emperor Theodosius, in the affair of Thessalonica, when that prince ordered the seditious to be destroyed: and he died soon after the greatest and most blessed of men: (say Paulinus and Baronius, who both writ his life.) -The best edition of his works is that of the Benedictins, Paris 1691, 2 volumes, folio: with many notes. As to St. Gregory of Neocaesarea, and the four other saints of the name, to wit, the two Nazianzens, Nysse, and Armenia, I shall have occasion to mention them in the next volume of my journal, and therefore, shall here only observe, in respect of Neocaesarea, usually called Thaumaturgus, or the wonder-worker, that he died in the year 265, according to Baronius, and the saint of Armenia, or in 270, according to Fabricius: and that the best edition of his works is that of Gerard Vossius in 4 to, Mayence, 1604. His pieces were likewise printed at Paris in folio, 1621. with the writings of some minor saints. This folio is a collection of things written by saints. says more than once, by trusting to their memories, in citing these very prophephecies, were frequently mistaken in the words, and sometimes in the sense of them. Nor is the evidence of prophecy so proper in these days, to convert men to the faith of Christ, as to confirm those who have already embraced it: serving chiefly, as St. Paul expresses it, not to them, who believed not, but to them who believe. The sum then of this article is, that upon the first promulgation of the gospel, while the conversion of the Jews was the principal object of our Saviour's ministry, and afterwards of his apostles, the argument of prophecy was, of all others, the best adapted to persuade, and conquer the prejudices of that nation. But in preaching the gospel to the Gentiles, not acquainted with the Jewish scriptures, not tinctured with any Jewish prejudices, the testimony of its miracles, and the purity of its doctrines, were the most affecting proof of its divine origin. Yet when by the evidence of these, people had once received the christian faith, and acquired a competent knowledge of it, they would then perceive, that the argument of prophecy, was a part also of the evidence, essentially necessary to complete the demonstration of its truth.227 1725. July 3. My departure from Yeoverin-Green, and arrival at a shaking-bog, at the bottom of a mountain.228 The nature of a shaking bog.229 We return from the bog to the Mountain, and arrive at a farmer's house.230 An account of Mr. Fleming, and his two brothers.231 [44] (44.) The arguments I used to make a convert of Mr. Fleming, the reader will find in the appendix to this journal, among other interesting matters, that are too long to be inserted in the story of my life. I shall print them in hopes they may be of service to some other soul. They were introduced the first day I was at Mr. Fleming's house, by his saying to me, after dinner, -Dear sir, will you give me leave to ask you, by what strange cause it has happened, that you are thus travelling on foot in this unvisited country. It must be an extraordinary affair I am sure. -Sir, I replied, my case is very uncommon. I do not believe that any thing like it ever was before, and, perhaps, such another affair may never happen again. I little thought then, that I should afterwards meet with two instances of the same kind of thinking and resolution in the female world, to wit, Miss Chawcer and Miss Janson; whose histories I have given in the first volume of my Memoirs of several ladies of Great-Britain, p. 41---64. The critics, I remember, had some doubts as to the reality of these two cases: but to this I answer, that they may as well doubt the truth of my own story; and from thence proceed to deny the reality of my existence; because several incidents in my life are strange, and such as they have not heard of before. It is not, however, in the power of criticism to invalidate what I deliver as facts. I will tell you my story: and so began to relate the religious Dispute between my father and me, and how it was brought to a Head by the devil possessed by a woman, called, a mother-in-law. As the glass went round, I let them know, how a man in the twenty-second year of his age, forsook all for the true gospel of Christ, and at a time of life, when very few think of religion, resolved to confess himself a Christian deist, to all whom it concerned, if it brought him to want, and from a morsel of bread to the grave. So far I was heard without interruption, tho' I declaimed by the way against the dreadful heresy of three gods: but not thinking I was in company with catholics, (for then I imagined that such subjects of the king of England were only to be found in Ireland), I brought into my oration against false religion, the diabolism of popery, and gave it several thrusts; as, indeed, I always do, whenever it comes in my way: for, good reader, tho' I love the catholic men and women, because I am a friend to man, and nearly related to many Romanists of great fortune; yet, popery I abhor; and look upon it as the greatest woe that ever the devil introduced into this lower world, to ruin mankind: but when I began to touch this string, and was raking Rome papal fore and aft, Fleming, the Frier, changed colour several times, (which I took notice of, and knew not what to ascribe it to, unless he was very sick) and at last he told me, by way of game, that I was an eloquent young gentleman, and had a flow of language; but my mistakes as to the church of Rome were very great, and he begged leave, as he was a priest of the holy Roman church, to set me right in my notions. This was a great surprize to me. It struck me silent for some minutes. At last, however, I told the gentlemen, that I asked their pardons for making so free with their religion, which I should not presume to have done, but that I thought they had been protestants: that, as to his offer to set me right, he did me great honour, and I would with pleasure hear him. I would, to be sure, be a convert to the strength of his arguments, if unanswerable; or, offer such reasons for remaining a protestant, as must satisfy a rational man. He then went on, and my reply followed. The substance of this is what the reader is to find in the Appendix.232 My arrival at Ulubræ and what passed there.233 My departure from Ulubræ to Eggleston.234 1725. From Eggleston I went to Mrs. Asgil's to look for Miss Melmoth; but she was gone.235 By accident, I meet Miss Melmoth.236 1725. Miss Melmoth and I proceed to Orton-Lodge, and are married by Father Fleming.237 [ The following list of numbered, thematic sections is not consistent with the numbered divisions appearing in the text which have been captured as chapter divisions. ]
238 * The author of Tuphlo-pero-gamia is the Rev. Mr. William Thompson; a junior Fellow of Trinity College, Dublin, when I was a member of that university. He was a man of the finest parts and learning, and was remarkable for a temper so vastly happy, that he was always called Benign Billy. His Paraphrase on Job, in blank verse, is an admirable thing: It is, in my opinion, far preferable to the ingenious Broome's paraphrase on this sacred book.239 An apology for the married state.240 The apology for the married state continued.241 Our manner of living at Orton-Lodge.242 Glencrow water-falls.243 The great age and size of carp and tench, in a fenny water near Orton-Lodge.244 The state of carp and tench put into a pond by a gentleman of my acquaintance.245 [1] Description of the black cock. (1) The black cock is as large as our game cocks, and flies very swift and strong. The head and eyes are large, and round the eyes is a beautiful circle of red. The beak is strong, and black as the body; the legs robust and red. It is very high eating; more so than any native in England except the fen-ortolan; but in one particular it exceeds the fen birds, for it has two tastes; it being brown and white meat: under a lay of brown is a lay of white meat; both delicious: the brown is higher than the black moor cock, and the white much richer than the pheasant. The moor-cock. The moor cock is likewise very rare, but is to be had sometimes in London, as the sportsmen meet with it now and then on the hilly-heaths, not very far from town; particularly on Hindhead-heath, in the way to Portsmouth. It is as large as a good Darking fowl, and the colour is a deep iron-grey. Its eyes are large and fine as the black cock's; but, instead of the red circle round them, it has bright and beautiful scarlet eyebrows. The cock of the wood. The cock of the wood, (as unknown in London as the black cock) is almost as large as a turkey, but flies well. The back is a mixture of black, grey, and a reddish brown; the belly grey, and the breast a pale brown, with transverse lines of black, and a little white at the tips of the feathers. It has a large round head, of the purest black, and over its fine hazle eyes, there is a naked space, that looks like an eye-brow of bright scarlet. It is delicious eating, but far inferior to the black cock.246 The death of Charlotte, my friend Tom Fleming, and others. 1727. ætat, 24.247 A reflexion on death.248 August 4. 1727. The author's departure from Orton-Lodge, to try his fortune once more.249 A delightful spot of earth among the fells of Westmoreland.250 A description of Basil Groves, the seat of Charles Henley, Esq;251 A description of John Henley, Esq;252 Description of Statia Henley, the granddaughter of John Henley, Esq;253 A conversation between John Henley, Esq; and the author.254 A summary of the author's history, from the beginning of his 17th year till his arrival at the groves of Basil in 1727, in the 25th year of his age.255 The old gentleman's reply to the story.256 The history of Ch. Henley, Esq; and his beautiful daughter Statia.257 Aug. 14, 1727.258 Old Mr. Henley offers me his granddaughter in marriage.259 My reply.260 My residence at Basil Groves for seven months, and manner of living.261 The death of old Mr. Henley, and Statia's behaviour thereupon.262 My reply to Miss Henley: being an apology for matrimony, as it is by the gospel made a memorial of the covenant of grace.263 [2] Of celibacy and marriage. (2) If succession be the main thing, and to prevent the extirpation of the rest of mankind by junction, why may it not be carried on as well without marriage, as in that confined way? I answer, that as the author and founder of marriage, was the Antient of Days, God himself, and at the creation, he appointed the institution: as Christ, who was vested with authority to abrogate any laws, or supersede any custom, in which were found any flaw or obliquity, or had not an intrinsic goodness and rectitude in them, confirmed the ordinance, by reforming the abuses that had crept into it, and restoring it to its original boundary: As he gave a sanction to this amicable covenant, and statuted that men should maintain the dignity of the conjugal state, and by virtue of this primordial and most intimate bond of society, convey down the race of mankind, and maintain its succession to the final dissolution; it is not therefore to be neglected or disregarded. We must not dare to follow our fancies, and in unhallowed mixtures, or an illegal method, have any posterity. As the great God appointed and blessed this institution only, for the continuance of mankind, the race is not to be preserved in another way. We must marry in the Lord, to promote his glory, as the apostle says, 1 Cor. vii. 39. The earth is not to be replenished by licentious junction, or the promiscuous use of women. Dreadful hereafter must be the case of all who flight an institution of God. I am sensible, the libertine who depreciates and vilifies the dignity of the married state, will laugh at this assertion: The fop and debauchee will hiss it, and still do their best to render wedlock the subject of contempt and ridicule. The Roman clergy will likewise decry it, and injuriously treat it as an impediment to devotion, a cramp upon the spiritual serving of God, and call it an instrument of pollution and defilement, in respect of their heavenly celibacy. But as God thought marriage was suitable to a paradisaical state, and the scriptures declare it honourable in all: as this is the way appointed by heaven to people the earth; and the institution is necessary, in the reason and nature of things, considering the circumstances in which mankind is placed; to prevent confusion, and promote the general happiness; as the bond of society, and the foundation of all human government; sure I am, the rake and the mass-priest, must be in a dreadful situation at the sessions of righteousness; when the one is charged with libertinism and gallantries, with madness and folly, and with all the evils and mischief they have done by illicit gratification, contrary to reason, and in direct opposition to the institutes of God;- and when the other, the miserable mass-priests, are called to an account, for vilifying the honour and dignity of the married state, and for striving to seduce mankind into the solitary retirements of celibacy, in violation of the laws of God; and more especially of the primary law or ordinance of heaven. Wretched priests! Your institutions are breaches in revealed religion, trespasses upon the common rights of nature, and such oppressive yokes as it is not able to bear. Your celibacy has not a grain of piety in it. It is policy and impiety. Hear me then, ye libertines and mass-priests: I call upon you of the first row, ye rakes of genius, to consider what you are doing, and in time, turn from your iniquities: Be no longer profligate and licentious, blind to your true interest and happiness, but become virtuous and honourable lovers, and in regard to the advantages of this solemn institution, called wedlock, as well to the general state of the world, as to individuals, marry in the Lord; so will you avoid that dreadful sentence, Fornicators and adulterers God will judge, that is, punish; and in this life, you may make things very agreeable, if you please; though it is in the heavenly world alone, where there shall be all joy and no sorrow. Let there be true beauty and gracefulness in the mind and manners, and these with discretion, and other things in your power, will furnish a fund of happiness commensurate with your lives. It is possible, I am sure, to make marriage productive of as much happiness as falls to our share in this lower hemisphere; as the nature of man can reach to in his present condition. For, as to joy flowing in with a full, constant and equal tide, without interruption and without allay, there is no such thing. Human nature doth not admit of this. "" In the next place, ye monks, I would persuade you, if I could, to labour no longer in striving to cancel the obligations to marriage by the pretence of religion. The voice of heaven, and the whispers of sound and uncorrupted reason are against it. It is will-worship in opposition to revelation. It is such a presumption for a creature against the author of our nature, as must draw down uncommon wrath upon the head of every mass-priest, who does not repent their preaching such wicked doctrine. Indeed I do not know any part of popery that can be called christianity: but this in particular is so horrible and diabolical, that I can consider the preachers for celibacy in no other light than as so many devils. May you ponder in time on this horrible affair.264 Miss Henley's answer.265 April 1, 1729, we leave Orton Lodge again, and set out for Harrigate Spaw. A description of the country we rid over. Ætat. 27.266 * Relation de l'Ambassade, dedica a Don Sebastien, roy de Portugal.267 The inhabitants of this fine valley, a society of married friars.268 * See my 1st volume, p. 347. where you will find a particular account of Labadie and Ivon.269 Some thoughts on the institution of married regulars.270 * Dissertation on the numbers of mankind.271 A further account of the Married Regulars I met with among the fells of Westmoreland.272 An observation on the prayers of the Ivon recluses.273 An answer to a question I asked one of these Ivonites.274 * Mark i. 35.275 † Mark vi. 46.276 ‡ Luke vi. 12.277 § Rom.xvi. 27.278 || 2 Cor. i. 3.279 * Phil. iv. 20.280 Mark xii. 29, 30, 31.281 A reflection on true and false religion.282 † Mark x. 18.283 ‡ John xvii. throughout.284 § Rom. iii. 30.285 || 1 Cor. viii. 4-6.286 * Eph. iv. 6.287 † 2 Tim. ii. 5.288 Some remarks on a passage in Binius; and a few thoughts in relation to the invocation of saints.289 [3] Of councils, and the editors of them. (3) Severin Bini, or Binius, as he is commonly called, was a doctor of divinity at Cologue, in the circle of the Lower Rhine in Germany, and canon of that archiepiscopal cathedral. He published in that city, in the year 1606, an elegant edition of all the councils in four very large volumes, folio, and by this work, made the editions or collections of James Merlin, Peter Crabb, and Lawrence Surius, of no value: but the 2d edition published by Binius in the year 1618, in nine volumes smaller folio, is far preferable to the first: and the Paris Edition of Bini's Councils in 1638, in ten large volumes, folio, is enlarged, more correct, and of consequence still better than the 2d edition of Binius. This is not however the best edition to buy, if you love to read that theological stuff called Councils. The Louvre edition des Conciles en 1644, in 37 volumes in folio, is what you should purchase; or, that of 1672, Paris, by the Jesuits Labbé and Cossart, in 18 large volumes in folio. This last is what I prefer, on account of the additions, correctness, and beauty of the impression. Pere Hardouin did likewise print a later very fine edition of the Councils, with explications and free remarks; an extraordinary and curious work I have been told: but I could not even see it in France, as the parliament of Paris had ordered the work to be secreted, on account of the remarks. N. B. Binius, whom I have mentioned, was born in the year 1543, and died 1620, æt. 77. N. B. James Merlin, the first editor of the Councils, was a doctor of divinity, and chanoine of Notre-dame de Paris. Besides the Councils, two large volumes in folio, he published the works of Richard de St. Victor, Paris, 1518. -the works of Peter de Blois, Paris, 1519.-and the works of Durand de St. Pourçain, Paris, 1515. His own works are, A Defence of Origen, in 4to. a good thing; and, Six Homilies on Gabriel's being sent to the Virgin Mary, in 8vo; which homilies are not worth half a farthing. -Merlin was born in the year 1742, and died 1541, aged 69. N. B. Peter Crabb, the 2d editor of the councils, was a Franciscan friar. He published two volumes in folio of Councils, at Cologne, in 1538; and a third volume in 1550. -Was born 1470; died 1553; æt. 83. N. B. Lawrence Surius, the third editor of the Councils, a monk of the Chartreux, published his edition of them, in four large volumes in folio, 1560; and a few years after printed his Lives of the Saints, in six tomes. He writ likewise a short History of his own Time; and, An Apology for the Massacre of St. Barthelemi. He was the most outragious, abusive bigot that ever writ against the Protestants. The great men of his own church despised him; and Cardinal Perron, in particular, calls him bête and Pignorant. He was born 1522; died 1578, æt. 56. N. B. Philip Labbé, the Jesuit, the 5th editor of the councils, and the next after Binius, was born in 1607; died 1667, æt. 60. He lived only to publish 11 vols. of the Councils, the 11th came out the year he died; and the other seven were done by Cossart. Labbé was a man of learning, and besides his collection of Councils, writ several other pieces. The best of them are, Bibliotheca bibliothecarum: Concordia chronologica: Bellarmini philologica: and The Life of Galen. Gabriel Cossart, the continuator, published the other seven volumes in 1672, and died at Paris, the 18th of December, 1674, æt. 59. N. B. 1. Richard de St. Victor (whose works I said were published by Merlin, at Paris, 1518) was a Scotchman, and prior of the abbey of St. Victor in Paris. He died the 10th of March, 1173, æt. 91. -He was the author of Three critical and historical dissertations on the Tabernacle; two on the Temple; three on the harmony of the chronology of the kings of Judea and Israel; Commentaries on the Psalms, Canticles, the Epistles of St. Paul, and the Revelation; Some treatises in divinity; and Several disquisitions relating to spiritual life. There have been four editions of these pieces, and the best of them is that of Rouen in 1650, in two volumes, by Father John de Toulouse, who writ the life of Richard, and added it to his edition. The three other editions are that of Paris, 1518; of Venice, 1592; of Cologne, 1621. Richard de Victor has been highly commended by several celebrated writers, by Henri de Grand, Trithem, Bellarmine, and Sixte de Sienne. There are many curious and fine things in his writings, it must be allowed: but in general, he is too subtil, too diffuse, and too full of digressions. His commentaries, for the most part, are weak. I am sure he did not understand St. Paul. But, for the 12th century, he was an extraordinary man. But who was St. Victor, to whom the abbey of Chanoines Regulieres in Paris, and the greater abbaye of Chanoines in Marseilles, are dedicated? He was a Frenchman, who fought under the Emperors Dioclesian and Maximian with great applause, in the most honourable post; but in the year 302, suffered martyrdom for refusing to sacrifice to the idols. He was executed on the spot where the abbey of St. Victor in Marseilles now stands, and there they have his reliques, a la reserve du pié, that is, except his foot, which lies in the Abbaye de St. Victor de Paris. William Grimaud, abbot of St. Victor de Marseille, on his being made Pope Urban the 5th, A. D. 1362, took the foot of St. Victor from his abbey, when he left it, and made a present of it to John, Duke of Berry, (one of the sons of John, the first king of France, who was taken prisoner by Edward the Black Prince, in the battle of Poitiers, Sept. 19, 1356): and this duke of Berry gave the inestimable foot to the monks of St. Victor in Paris. There it remains to this day; and tho' so small a part of the blessed Victor, sheds immense benefits on the pious Catholics who adore it. Happy Catholics! 2. As to Peter de Blois, he was arch deacon of Bath, in the reign of Henry the second, and died in London, in the year 1200, æt. 71. His works are 183 letters on various subjects, 20 sermons, and 17 tracts of several kinds. They were first printed at Mayence in 1500. - Then by Merlin, Paris, 1519, as before mentioned. - Afterwards, John Busée, the Jesuit, gave an edition of them in 1600, which is far preferable to that of Merlin. But the most valuable edition is that of Peter de Goussainville, in folio, Paris, 1667: to this edition is prefixed the life of Peter de Blois, and very learned remarks on Peter's writings, and the subjects he writ on, are added, by Goussainville. De Blois's works contain many excellent things, and his life is a curious piece. Some of his notions relating to the scriptures are very good, and he writes well against vice. He is a good author for the age he lived in. His letters are well worth reading; especially such of them as relate to his own time. King Henry the second ordered him to make a collection of them for his (the king's) use. 3. Durand de St. Pour çain, was bishop of Meux, in 1326, and died the 13th of September, 1333, in the 89th year of his age. His works are, Liber de origine jurisdictionum, (a learned piece); and Commentaries on the four books of sentences. (The book called, The Sentences, was written by the famous Peter Lombard, bishop of Paris, who died in the year 1164. æt. 82. In the Sentences, one of the propositions argued on is this: Christus secundum quod est homo, non est aliquod. Some call these Sentences excellent, which is what I cannot think them: but in Durand's Commentary on them, there are several excellent things.) As to the Jesuit, Jean Busée, (who published the 3d edition of Peter de Blois) he died at Mayence the 30th of May, 1611, aged 64, and was the author of many books not worth mentioning. The learned Goussainville (who printed the last edition of De Blois, with notes, and the life) died in the year 1683, extremely poor and miserable. He likewise published the works of St. Gregory, the first pope of that name, with many valuable remarks and notes. There are four editions of this pope's works; that of Tussiniani, bishop of Venice, by order of pope Sixtus the 5th: the Paris edition, 1640: Goussainville's edition: and the late Benedictine edition: but Goussainville's is, in my opinion, the most valuable. N. B. The Sermons in the first and second editions of Peter de Blois' works, are not his, but Peter Comestor's. De Blois' sermons are only to be found in Goussainville's edition of this arch-deacon's works. Note, Peter Comestor was a regular canon of St. Victor's in Paris, and died in the year 1198, æt. 65. -Besides the sermons published by mistake as the work of De Blois, he writ a large scholastic history, which comprehends the sacred history from Genesis to the end of the Acts. This is reckoned a good thing; and has been abridged by one Hunter, an Englishman. Of councils. But as to Councils; we have the following account of the eighteen general ones in the Vatican library, and are told, that the several inscriptions affixed to them were made by pope Sixtus the 5th; the famous Felix Peretti, who was born the 13th of December, 1521, and died the 27th of August, 1590, in the 69th year of his age. 1st Council, which is that of Nice in 325. St. Sylvester being pope, and Constantine the great emperor, Jesus Christ the Son of God is declared consubstantial with his Father; the impiety of Arius is condemned; and the emperor, in obedience to a decree of the council, ordered all the books of the Arians to be burnt. 2d Council, which is that of Constantinople in 381. The holy Damasus being pope, and Theodosius the elder emperor, the divinity of the Holy Ghost is defended against the impious Macedonius, and his false doctrine is anathematized. 3d Council, which is that of Ephesus in 431. St. Celestin being pope, and Theodosius the younger emperor, Nestorius, who divided Jesus Christ into two persons, is condemned; and the Holy Virgin is decreed to be the mother of God. 4th Council, which is that of Chalcedonia in 451. St. Leo being pope, and Marcien emperor, the unhappy Eutychius is anathematized, for maintaining that Jesus Christ had but one nature. 5th Council, which is the second of Constantinople in 553. Vigilius being pope, and Justinian, emperor, the debates relating to the doctrine of Theodore, bishop of Mopsueste, Ibas, bishop of Edessa, and Theodoret, bishop of Cyr, are suppressed, and the errors of Origen are separated from the holy doctrine. 6th Council, which is the third of Constantinople in 680. St. Agatho being pope, and Constantine Pagonatus, emperor, the heretics called Monothelites, who admitted but one will in Jesus Christ, are condemned. 7th Council, which is the second of Nice in 784. Adrian being pope, and Constantine, the son of Irene, being emperor, the impiety of the image-breakers is condemned, and the worship of the holy images is established in the church. 8th Council, which is the fourth of Constantinople in 689. Adrian the second being pope, and Basil, emperor, Ignatius, patriarch of Constantinople, is re-established in his see, and Photius, the usurper, is with ignominy driven away. 9th Council, which is the first of Lateran in 1122. ** The canons of these two councils are wanting, and they have no inscription in the Vatican. 10th Council, which is the second of Lateran in 1139. ** The canons of these two councils are wanting, and they have no inscription in the Vatican. 11th Council, which is the third of Lateran in 1179. Alexander the third being pope, and Frederick the first emperor, the errors of the Vandois are condemned. 12th Council, which is the fourth of Lateran in 1215. Innocent the third being pope, and Frederick the second, emperor, the false opinions of the abbot Joachim are condemned; the holy war, for the recovery of Jerusalem, is resolved; and the croisades are appointed among christians. 13th Council, which is the first of Lyons in 1245. Under the pontificate of Innocent the 4th, the emperor Frederick is declared an enemy to the church, and deprived of the empire; they deliberate on the recovery of the Holy Land; St. Lewis, king of France, is declared chief of that expedition. The cardinals are honoured with red hats. 14th Council, which is the second of Lyons in 1274. Gregory the tenth being sovereign pontiff, the Greeks are reunited to the church of Rome; St. Bonaventure does signal service to the church in this council; Friar Jerome brings the king of the Tartars to the council, and that prince receives, in the most solemn manner, the blessed water of baptism. 15th Council, which is that of Vienne in 1311. Under the pontificate of Clement the fifth, the Decretals, called the Clementines from the name of this pope, are received and published; the procession of the holy sacrament is instituted throughout Christendom; and professors of the oriental languages are established in the four most famous universities in Europe, for the propagation of the christian faith in the Levant. 16th Council, which is that of Florence in 1439. The Greeks, the Armenians, and the Ethiopians, are reunited to the catholic church, under the pontificate of Eugene the fourth. 17th Council, which is the fifth of Lateran, began in the year 1517. They declared war against the Turks, who had seized the island of Cyprus, and possessed themselves of Egypt, on the death of the sultan: the emperor Maximilian the first, and Francis the first, king of France, are appointed generals of this war, under the the popes Julius the second, and Leo the tenth. 18th Council, which is that of Trent, the last of the œcumenical or general councils: held from the year 1545 to the year 1563. Paul the third, Julius the third, and Pius the fifth, reigning at Rome, the Lutherans and other heretics are condemned, and the ancient discipline of the church is re-established in her exact and regular practice. These, reader, are the eighteen famous General Councils; and if you will turn to the third volume of a work, called, Notes relating to Men, and Things, and Books, you will find my observations on them; my remarks on the popes, the princes, and the fathers, assembled; their unchristian immoralities, and sad acts against the laws of Christ, in order to establish for ever, that very senseless, and very wicked religion, called Popery; that is, a composition of sin and error so base and abominable, that we might expect such a thing from the devil; but it is impossible it could come from heavenly inspired fathers. In that book, you will find many thoughts on the religion delivered to the world by those Councils, and by them established, though it is in reality a disgrace to christianity; a dishonour to the religion of nature; and a faction against the common rights of mankind: what ought to be the just object of universal contempt and abhorrence; whether we consider it as a system of idolatry, impiety, and cruelty; or, as a political scheme, to destroy the liberties, and engross the properties of mankind. Of these things, particularly and largely, in the piece referred to. Here I have only further to observe, that in the large collections of the Councils, it is not only the eighteen œcumenical the collectors have gathered, but so much of all the councils as they could find, their acts, letters, formularies of faith, and canons, from the first council at Jerusalem, A. D. 49, to the last council in the 18th century; which was convoked by the archbishop of Ambrun against Jean de Soanem, bishop of Senez. These amount to above 1600 councils. Note, Reader, the condemnation, the banishment of old John de Soanem (in the 80th year of his age) the most learned and excellent prelate in France, of his time, by Firebrand Tartuff, archbishop of Ambrun, and his council, (A. D. 1727, September 21) was on account of the bishop's admirable pastoral instruction against the execrable constitution unigenitus, and the antichristian formulary of pope Alexander the seventh; and because he recommended the reading of Pere Quesnel's very pious and fine Reflections Morales. - This famous Jansenist, and father of the oratory, Pasquier Quesnel, was the author of many books, (some of them very good) and lived to a great age. He was born in 1636, and died at last in prison (if I mistake not) a sufferer for religion. He was severely persecuted for many years.290 Some remarks on the doctrine of invocation of saints.291 [4] (4) Quid tam proprium Christi quam advocatum apud deum patrum adstare populorum. (Ambros. in Psal. 39.) -Pro quo nullus interpellat sed ipse pro omnibus, hic unus verusque mediator est. (Aug. Cont. Parmen. l. 2. c. 8.292 [5] (5) The Roman doctors say, the saints know the transactions that are done here below, by revelation or intuition. -To this I answer, if it is by revelation, that they know our requests and prayers to them, then it must be either from God or from angels; of which there is not the least assurance or certainty to be any where found; but if we could be sure of it, then, in my opinion, we ought to pray to God or angels to make known our prayers to saints; which would be strange religion. -If it be by intuition, as the greatest part of the doctors say, and that the saints see the requests in the divine essence, as men see things in a corporeal glass; then, (exclusive of answering that the scriptures say no such thing) the saints must see all things in the divine essence, or only such things as God is pleased to permit them to see: if all things, they would be omniscient: if only the things permitted to be seen, how is it possible for us to know whether God is pleased to permit them to see therein our prayers, or to know the requests we make to them, unless he had told us so. Let it be revelation or intuition, it is sad stuff.293 April 8, 1729, we leave the religious, and proceed in the journey.294 A description of a little country seat, in the northern extremity of Stanemore.295 A description of a sleeping parlour in a grove.296 [6] (6) Lord Cobham's, now Earl Temple's seat in Buckinghamshire, 59 miles from London.297 Pass'd the night in the sleeping parlour in the wood.298 Finn's story.299 The author's manner of living for several days, in the cottage of a poor fisherman in Bishoprick.300 A description of a charming little country seat, where a solitary gentleman lived.301 The history of Dorick Watson, the hermit.302 The hermit's observations on Bellarmine's notes of the church.303 [7] An abstract of Dr. Chandler's observations on Bellarmine's sixth note of the church. (7) Reader, it is well worth your while to turn to the first volume of that admirable work, the Salter's-hall Sermons against Popery, and there see how the Cardinal's notes of his church are considered by that learned and excellent man, Dr. Samuel Chandler. His consideration of the 6th note more immediately concerns me here, and therefore I give you an abstract of it. The writings of the apostles are allowed even by our adversaries to be the oldest records of christianity, and therefore to this antient and infallible rule we ought to appeal, to determine the controversy between us and the papists, that is, to see how far this antiquity favours their doctrine and practices, or is in agreement with ours. 1. The protestants renounce the Pope, and acknowledge one law-giver, the Lord Jesus Christ, for these reasons,-That the Pope is not mentioned in the New Testament; that Christ says, one is your master, even Christ; and St. Paul says, there is but one Lord, and one Faith: the whole family in heaven and earth is named of the Lord Jesus Christ. 2. Protestants do not pay any worship at all to saints and angels, but as St. Paul directs, consider Jesus Christ as their sole mediator and advocate; for there is but one God, and one mediator between God and man, the man Jesus Christ. They say, such veneration and prayer to saints and angels is superstition and will-worship, and only worship God with all their hearts and souls, with the most raised affections, and the highst degrees of love and fear, faith and confidence; for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord God, and him only shalt thou serve: And the angel in the Revelation said to John, who fell down at his feet to worship him, See thou do it not, for I am thy fellow-servant. 3. We affirm, that in the sacrament of the Lord's Supper, after consecration, there is nothing existent but bread and wine; for St. Paul says, Whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup, and as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup. 4. We affirm the eucharist is only a memorial of Christ's death; for Christ says, do this in remembrance of me; and St. Paul assures the Corinthians from Christ himself, (1 Cor. xi. 24) that they were to receive the elements with this view only: and in his epistle to the Hebrews he tells us, that by one offering Christ hath for ever perfected those who are sanctified; and that because there is remission of sins under the new covenant, there is no more offering for sin; which proves, the eucharist is not a propitiatory sacrifice. 5. We renounce the doctrine of purgatory, and affirm that the future state is no state of probation; for at death, the dust shall return to the earth as it was, and the spirit shall return to God who gave it. And St. Paul declares, that at the judgment-seat of Christ every one shall receive the things done in the body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. 6. Protestants affirm, that the worship of God ought to be performed in a language which all men understand; and that they have a right to search the scriptures: For, if I speak with tongues, (says the apostle) in such a language as those I speak to cannot understand, what shall I profit you? Let all things be done to edifying. And Christ bids us search the scriptures: And how could the word of Christ dwell richly in us in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, if we had not the word of Christ, and the scriptures of truth to read and consult for ourselves. These are the protestant doctrines, and we see they were taught by Christ and by his apostles. We have the sanction of the most venerable antiquity on our side, and this note of the true church of Christ belongeth to us in the highest perfection. When the papists then scornfully say, Where was your church before Luther and Calvin? The answer is obvious: the doctrine of our church was in the writings of the inspired apostles, where the church of Rome is never to be found;-the same that was taught by Christ himself, whom they have forsaken, and whose faith they have corrupted. As to our predecessors and professors, they were the persecuted disciples of the crucified Jesus, those martyrs and confessors, whose blood the church of Rome hath cruelly spilt. This is the genuine antiquity the protestants have to boast of. Their doctrines are the word of Christ, and their fathers were put to death by papists for the testimony of Jesus. But the papists on the contrary, exclusive of the example of the devil, who was a murderer from the beginning, and Antiochus Epiphanus, Nero, Domitian, and other monsters of mankind, who went before them in the measures of persecution, cruelty, and blood; and excepting the idolatrous nations of the earth, and the false prophets and deceivers among the Jews, by whose authority and example they may vindicate their own idolatries, they have no genuine antiquity to plead. Many of their doctrines were unknown to, or abhorred by the primitive church, and are mere novelties and innovations, that were originally introduced by superstition, and then maintained by cruelty and blood.304 A few remarks relating to the Abbé Le Blanc, and his letters.305 [8] (8) Voltaire's words are,-And notwithstanding all the troubles and infamy which the church of Rome has had to encounter, she has always preserved a greater decency and gravity in her worship than any of the other churches; and has given proofs, that when in a state of freedom, and under due regulations, she was formed to give lessons to all others. -Is not this facing the world, and contradicting truth with a bold front? Decency and gravity in the church of Rome! The licentious whore. And formed to give lessons! Lessons, Voltaire! -Is not her wisdom, in every article of it, earthly, sensual, devilish;-and her zeal, that bitter, fierce, and cruel thing, which for ever produces confusion and every evil work? With a just abhorrence, and a manly indignation, we must look upon this mystery of iniquity, and never let that horror decay, which is necessary to guard us against the gross corruptions of the Roman church; the idolatry of her worship,-the absurdity and impiety of her doctrines,-the tyranny and cruelty of her principles and practices. These are her lessons, Voltaire; and you ought to ask the world pardon for daring to recommend a church, whose schemes and pieties bid defiance to reason, and are inconsistent with the whole tenor of revelation. This is the more incumbent on you, as you say you are a philosopher, and let us know in more places than one in your writings, that by that word, you mean a man who believes nothing at all of any revelation.306 Some observations on the Abbé Le Blanc's fifty-eighth letter to the President Bouhier, in which he misrepresents and blackens the reformation of England, and abuses the English clergy.307 [9] Of Mons. Bouhier, president of the French academy. (9) Reader-Bouhier, president of the French academy, (to whom Le Blanc inscribes his 58th letter) died in 1746. He was a scholar. L'Abbé de Olivet, (from whom he had the late fine edition of Cicero in seven volumes 4 to) speaks of him in the following manner; -Je me suis prêté à ce nouveau travail, & d'autant plus volontiers, que M. le Président Bouhier a bien voulu le partager avec moi. -On sera, sans doute, charmé de voir Cicéron entre les mains d'un traducteur aussi digne de lui, que Cicéron lui-même étoit digne d'avoir traducteur un savant du premier ordre. Tusc. tome 1. p. 13. -And again;-Feu M. Le Président Bouhier, le varron de notre siecle, & l'homme le plus capable de bien rendre les vraies beautez d'un original Grec ou Latin, avoit tellement retouché ses deux Tusculanes, qu'on aura peine à les reconnoître dans cette nouvelle édition. Tusc. tome 2. p. 1. This is Olivet's account of Bouhier; and I have heard some gentlemen who knew him say, that he was a very fine genius; but, they added, a popish bigot to the last degree, and therefore, Le Blanc chose him as the fittest person of his acquaintance, to write an epistle to, that abused the reformation, and the English divines. Great is the prejudice of education! When so bright a mind as Bouhier's cannot see the deformity of Popery, and the beauty of the reformation; but, on the contrary, with pleasure reads the despicable defamation in Le Blanc's letter. N. B. The two Tusculans, so finely translated by Bouhier, are the 3d, De ægritudine lenienda: and the 5th, Virtutem ad beatè vivendum seipsa esse contentam. De la vertu: Qu'elle suffit pour vivre heureux. -See likewise, M. Bouhier's curious and useful remarks on the three books, De Natura Deorum; the five Tusculans; Scipio's dream; and on the Catilinaires, or three orations against Catiline. These remarks are the third volume.308 [10] A word or two relating to transubstantiation. (10) Note, reader, in the fourth volume of a work, called, Notes relating to Men, and Things, and Books, you will find some more of my remarks on the Abbé Le Blanc's epistles. You will see, among other observations on this monk, a vindication of Archbishop Tillotson. The Abbé rails at one of this prelate's fine sermons, with great malice and impudence, and has the vanity to think his miserable declamation an answer. This wretched and despicable Romish apostate has the impudence and impiety to defend the worship of his God of dough, and would, if it were in his power, persuade the readers of his letters, to adore the tiny cake he prostrates himself before. For this the reader will find the mass-priest well chastised in the work I have referred to; and see the doctrine of the Lord's Supper set in a true light. You will find there a curious history of the mass, from the time the popish doctors first drew it out of the bottomless pit; and see it made quite evident, that in this abominable article of their faith, as well as in every other part of their execrable religion, they make void the law of God, and sink the human race into the vilest slavery and idolatry. Beware then, Christians, of popery. Still bravely dare to protest against her infernal schemes and inventions, and draw your religion from the book of God, that holy volume of inestimable treasure. It is our light in darkness,-our comfort under affliction,-our direction to heaven,-and let us die in defence of it, if ever there should be occasion, rather than suffer the blood-thirsty papists, the red-handed idolaters, to snatch it out of our hands. They will give us for it the despicable legends of fictitious saints and false miracles;-a history of diseases cured instantly by relicks;-accounts of speaking images;-stories of travelling chapels;-wonders done by a Madona;-and the devil knows what he has crowded into their wretched heads. Down with popery then, the religion of hell, and may that happy state be erected, when truth and love shall embrace and reign. Come Lord Jesus, come quickly.309 The beginning of my acquaintance with Miss Cranmer, and how it ended in a marriage.310 The author goes to Harrogate.311 An account of the place, the wells, and company.312 Some advice to the drinkers of Harrogate waters.313 Some observations on spaw-waters, and advice to the drinkers in a mineral course.314 Conclusion of the author's advice.315 The company and manner of living at Harrogate.316 The author meets at Harrogate six gentlemen of his acquaintance from Dublin.317 The characters of six Irish gentlemen. O'Keefe's character.318 Character of Mr. Makins.319 Character of Mr. Gallaspy.320 Character of Mr. Dunkley.321 Character of Mr. Monaghan.322 Character of Mr. Gollogher.323 The history of the unfortunate Miss Hunt.324 The picture of Miss Hunt.325 A word or two to Mr. R. who debauched Miss Hunt.326 The author falls in love with Miss Spence.327 An apology for the author's marrying so often.328 Miss Spence's reply to my addresses.329 May 12, a remove to Oldfield-Spaw, for a week, on account of an indisposition.330 A reflection at solitary Oldfield-Spaw, after a night's hard drinking.331 A description of Oldfield-Spaw.332 An account of Oldfield-Spaw-water.333 An observation on our people of fortune going to other countries to drink mineral waters.334 Of Moffat-Wells.335 Virtues of these waters.336 The author leaves Oldfield-Spaw, and sets out for Knaresborough, but arrives at another place, May 19, 1731.337 A morning thought on the rising sun.338 May 15, 1731. A description of a beautiful spot of ground, and a sweet pretty country seat in the west-riding of Yorkshire.339 An account of two wonderful figures, which played on the German flute.340 The history of Miss Wolf.341 May 25, 1731. An account of Oliver Wincup, E.q;342 A description of Woodcester House.343 The manner of living at Woodcester.344 An account of a company of stroling players at Woodcester.345 An account of Mr. Hawley of Loch-Gur.346 June 1, 1731. The author leaves Woodcester, and rides to a lone silent place called Lasco.347 The history of the two beauties in the wood.348 Character of Mr. Jeremiah Cock, an old lawyer.349 A description of old Cock the lawyer.350 July 1, 1731. My departure from Orton-Lodge a second time: missed my road: the country described.351 Mrs. Thurloe's seat in Westmoreland.352 An account of the two Miss Thurloe's.353 Account of a Carthusian monastery in Richmondshire.354 Reasons for reading the works of the Rabbies, fictitious and extravagant as they are.355 [11] An account of the Talmuds. (11) Reader, that you may the better understand the conversation I had with this learned Carthusian, I must inform you what the Talmud, and other writings of the Rabbies, are.- The Talmud is a celebrated piece of Jewish literature, that is full of Rabinical domination and enthusiasm. The Rabbins pretend, this book contains the Oral laws, and other secrets, which God communicated to Moses. It consists of two parts, each of which is divided into several books. In the first part, which they call Mishna, is the text. In the other, is a sort of comment on the text, and this is stiled the Gemara. This oral law, or tradition of the Jews, was collected after the destruction of the Temple, A. D. 150, by Rabbi Judah, and is by them preferred before the scripture. They suppose it was orally delivered by Moses to Israel, and unlawful to be written; but when Jerusalem was destroyed, they were constrained to write it, least it should be lost; but yet it was so written, as that none but themselves might understand it. - This Mishna and Gemara compleat the two Talmuds: -that of Jerusalem, A. D. 230;-and that of Babylon, 500 years after Christ. Many parts of these Talmuds are translated by several learned men, who have endeavoured to render them intelligible: but in order to understand them fully, you must read the Jad Chaska, or Mishna Torah of Moses Maimonides, who was physician to the king of Egypt about 600 years ago. This Rabbi hath comprized the substance of the Mishna and Gemara of the Talmud, in his books, and enabled us to understand all the Mishna with ease and pleasure. See likewise the Clavis Talmudica, Cock's Excerpta, and the works of the excellent Ludivicus de Campeigne du Veil, who had been a Jew, but became a Roman Catholic; from Rome went over to the Church of England, where he was for several years in the character of a great divine: but at last turned Baptist, and died a member of that christian church; which lost him all his friends and interest. He died the beginning of this century, with the reputation of an upright Christian and a most learned man. There is no tolerable account given of him in any of the Biographical Dictionaries. What they say is short and next to nothing. And the Popish accounts are not only short, but false, and mere calumny. -I took a great deal of pains some years ago, to collect among the Baptists, and from others who knew this great man, every thing I could get relating to him and his works, and formed what I had got into a life of him, which I did intend to insert in this place: but by some accident or other, it is gone. I cannot find it any where.356 An account of Knaresborough and its waters.357 Description of a dropping well.358 Observations on petrifying waters.359 [12] (12) A Postilla, reader, is a barbarous word made up of the words post illa, and was brought into use in the twelfth century, when the marginal explicators of the bible left the margins, and under their text writ short and literal notes, before which they put the word postilla, instead of the words post illa, meaning the particular words in the text, from whence, by a letter, they referred to the little note below: but in the 13th century, the barbarous word took so much, that all the commentators following, appropriated the name to their most copious commentaries, contrary to the first practice in the use of the word, and for three centuries after, the biblial learning was all postilla, till at length the word disappeared, according to the wonted inconstancy and agitation of all human things, and gave place to a new and fifth invention, called tractatus, or homily. This is the history of a postilla.360 Of Wardrew sulphur-water.361 A description of Wardrew in Northumberland.362 The history of Claudius Hobart.363 A tract.364 Discourse on the rule of reason.365 Account of revelation.366 Of the Mysteries, Trinity, and Sacrifice of the Cross.367 * Or rather in bad French, as the writer was no Frenchman.368 * La verité & la religion en visite. Alamagne 1695.369 An account of Socinus.370 The author returns to Harrogate, and from thence goes to Cleator in Westmoreland, to wait upon Miss Spence.371 [13] (13) While I waited at the inn, till the horses had eaten their corn, the landlord brought me a paper, dropt, by a lady he knew not, some days before at his house. He added, it was curiosity, and worth my serious consideration. A Morning and Evening Prayer. "" "" Observations relative to Miss Dudgeon's Prayer. This prayer pleased me very much. In the most beautiful manner, as well as in a few words, it expresses all we need ask from heaven; and if Miss Dudgeon of Richmondshire was the composer of it, as I have been assured since, upon enquiry, I here place it to her honour, as a monument of her piety and sense; and in hopes the illustrious of her sex will use so short and excellent a form of devotion in their closets morning and night. There is an expression in this prayer, which for some time I could not well comprehend the meaning of; that is, Make my heart one: but on considering it, I found it supported by the greatest authorities. Among the sayings of Pythagoras, one is, be simply thyself. Reduce thy conduct to one single aim, by bringing every passion into subjection, and acquiring that general habit of self-denial, which comprehends temperance, moderation, patience, government, and is the main principle of wisdom. Be simply thyself, and so curb desire, and restrain the inclinations, and controul the affections, that you may be always able to move the passions as reason shall direct. Let not every foremost fancy, or every forward appearance, have the least mastery over you; but view them on every side by the clear light of reason, and be no further influenced by the imaginations of pleasure, and apprehensions of evil, than as the obvious relations and nature of things allow. Let the result of a perception which every rational mind may have of the essential difference between good and evil, be the cause or ground of obligation. This will add greatly to quiet, and be productive of much real felicity. It will render every present condition supportable, brighten every prospect, and always incline us more to hope than to fear. This is the doctrine of Pythagoras. I likewise find that David expresses the same thought in the 86th Psalm, ver. 11. which is rendered in the Bible translation, Unite my heart -in the Common-Prayer Book, O knit my heart unto thee, that I may fear thy name: but the Hebrew is, "" meaning, Let the fear of thee be the one ruling disposition of my soul, in opposition to the double-minded man, which the Hebrew elegantly expresses by a heart and a heart; one that draws to the riches, pleasures, and honours of this world; and another to the practice of all virtue. As to the other part of the prayer, which has the words-glorious-fearful-Jehovah;-whereas in the 86th Psalm it is only said-"" the author certainly took them from the 28th chapter of Deuteronomy, ver. 58. The design of the dreadful threatnings in this chapter set before the people, is there thus expressed,-that thou mayest fear this glorious and fearful name, Jehovah thy God; (in our translation, the Lord thy God). And therefore I think these words are very finely used in this prayer. "" N. B. The Rector of St. Mabyn is the Rev. Mr. Peters; and the passage is to be found in an excellent Preface to the octavo edition of his admirable Dissertation on the Book of Job, in reply to that part of the Divine Legation of Moses demonstrated, in which the author, my Lord of Gloucester, sets himself to prove, that this book is a work of imagination, or dramatic composition, no older than Ezra the priest, whom he supposes to be the writer of it, in the year before Christ 467, or the year 455, in the 20th year of the reign of Artaxerxes, king of Persia, when Daniel's seventy weeks begins; that is, the period of 490 years, that were to be fulfilled before the passion of our Saviour. And further, (according to the author of the Legation), that this allegorical drama or poem was written to quiet the minds of the Jewish people under the difficulties of their captivity, and to assure them, as represented by the person of Job, of those great temporal blessings which three prophets had predicted. Now in the Preface to the book aforementioned, in answer to all this (and fully and beautifully answered it is), you will find, I say, the passage relating to the word Jehovah, and more than I have quoted from it. As to Pythagoras the Samean, mentioned in this note, on account of his saying-Be simply thyself;-he was famous in the 60th olympiad, as Jamblicus informs us; that is, his Elikia, or Reign of Fame, began in the first year of this olympiad, which was the year before Christ 540; for 60×4 gives 250 -777 leaves 537+3, the plus years of the olympiad; i. e. 2, 3, 4=540. -And he died in the 4th year of the 70th olympiad, that is, the year before Christ 497: for 70×4=280-777 remains 497: there are no plus years to be added here, as it happened in the 4th or last year of the olympiad. This philosopher was contemporary with, and a near friend to, the renowned Phalaris, who was murdered in the year before Christ 556, when the Belshazzar of Daniel ascended the throne of Babylon. And as Pythagoras lived to the age of 90, according to Diogenes, he must have been born in the beginning of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar; the year this conqueror took Jerusalem, and its king Zedekiah, which was olymp. 47. 3. and of consequence before Christ 590: for 47×4=188-777, remains 580+1=590. This was 54 years before Thespis invented tragedy ** Olymp. 61. 1. Selden's Comment on the Arundel Marble. , and 11 years before the birth of Æschylus, the reformer of tragedy. Cyrus was then in the 10th year of his age. It is likewise evident from hence, that Pythagoras must have lived through the reigns of Cyrus, Cambyses, and the greatest part of the reign of Darius Histaspes, who slew Smerdis the Magi, and is called in scripture Ahasuerus; the king of Persia, who married Esther, and ordered Haman the Amalekite to be hanged on the gallows he had erected for Mordecai the Jew, in the year before Christ 510. Note, David was before Pythagoras 519 years. Reader, As to the word Elikia, which I have used to express the reign or time of flourishing of Pythagoras, I have an observation or two to make in relation to it, which I think worth your attending to. Clemens Alexandrinus says (Stromata, p. 40), ??? ???s??? ??? t?? S???µ??t?? ?????a? ?t? t?? ?a?ta ??a??s?a ???a: that is, The years from Moses to Solomon's Elikia are 610; to wit, Moses's life120 From his death to David's accession450 David's reign40 610 From this passage it is plain, that the Elikia of Solomon is not meant of his nativity, but of the beginning of his reign, when he was 33 years of age. It is then very surprising that Dodwell should insist upon it, that Elikia always signifies nativity. It is the more wonderful, as Dodwell quotes this passage from Clement; and as it is impossible to make out 610, without coming to the 33d of Solomon, as I have reckoned it. Nay, in another place of the Stromata, Clement says, Isaiah, Hosea, and Micah lived after the Elikia of Lycurgus; where he can only mean the time when that lawgiver flourished; for, from the Destruction of Troy to the Akmé of Lycurgus, was 290 years: and from Solomon, in whose time Troy was taken, to the time of the prophets, was 360 years. Thus does learning accommodate things. Dodwell wanted to fit a passage in Antilochus to his own calculation, and so 312 years from the Elikia of Pythagoras, that is, says Dodwell, from the nativity of the philosopher (he meant taking the word in that sense) to the death of Epicurus, brings us exactly to the time. Who can forbear smiling? A favourite notion is to many learned men a sacred thing. Dodwell settles his passage in Antilochus to his mind, by perverting the word Elikia. This, to be sure, in prophane things, can do no great harm: but when the practice is brought into things sacred, it is a detriment to mankind. Some divines, for example, to support a notion as unreasonable as it is dear to them, tell us that the word Isos signifies strict equality, not like: and that when St. Paul says ?sa ???, we must construe it, Jesus Christ was strictly equal to the most high God. This is sad construction, when Homer, Euripides, Æschylus, make the word Isos to import no more than like. Isanemos, swift as the wind; Isatheos phos, like a God; Isanerios, like a dream. And when a divine is positive that os and kathos, as, and even as, words occurring in the New Testament, signify a strict equality, and not some sort of likeness; this is miserable perversion, and hurts the christian religion very greatly; as they endeavour, by such a given sense, to prove that the man Christ Jesus is to be honoured with the same divine honours we offer to God the Father Almighty, by the command and example of Jesus, who was sent from God, and was a worshipper of God; who lived obedient to the laws of God, preached those laws, and died for them in the cause of God; who was raised from the dead by God, and now sits on God's right hand; intercedes with God, and in his Gospel owns his Father to be his and our only true God. This is sad accommodation. Tho' the words never signify more than a degree of likeness in the Greek classics, yet our headstrong orthodox monks will have them to mean strict equality; and Alexander the Great and Alexander the Coppersmith are the same Being. Amazing! Gentlemen; here is but One Ball, and out of itself you shall see this one ball send forth two other balls, big as it, and yet not lose one atom of its weight and grandeur. Hocus pocus, Reverendissimi spectatores, the One is Three. And now, Gentlemen, be pleased to observe the miracle reversed. Pilluli pilluli, congregate, Presto presto, unite: observate, Signori Dottissimi, the Three are One. - Such is the hocus pocus the monks have made of their Trinity.372 The manner of passing the evening at Cleator, the first night I was there.373 A conversation relating to the Revolution, and exclusion of James II.374 A Description of Cleator.375 Character of Maria Spence.376 A reflection on the education of the women.377 The author's departure from Cleator for London, July 31. 1731.378 A discourse on fluxions.379 An account of Martin Murdoch.380 [14] (14) Cleanthes was a native of Assus in Lysia, in Asia Minor, and so very poor, when he came to Athens to study, that, for his support, he wrought at nights in drawing water for the gardens, and in grinding behind the mill. He attended the lectures of Zeno, succeeded him in his school, and grew into very high esteem with the Athenians. He lived to 99, but the year he died we know not. His master Zeno died 342 years before Christ, and had conversed with Socrates and Plato. The antient academics were Plato, (the disciple of Socrates), Speucippus, Zenocrates, Polemo, Crates, and Crantor; and from Crates, the fifth academic, sprung the old stoics, to wit, Crates, Zeno, Cleanthes, Chrysippus, and Diogenes the Babylonian; not he that was surly and proud. Cicero in his works often mentions this Babylonian, the stoic. We find in the Roman history, that he was living in the year of Rome 599, that is, 155 years before Christ; but when he died we know not. These gentlemen of the two old schools were to be sure great philosophers, -excellent men: but then, to be strictly impartial, we must own, that all they knew in relation to the will of God, and a kingdom to come, was but poor moral learning, in respect to what is written in the New Testament for our instruction, if we will lay aside our fancies and systems, and let reason explain revelation. The Christian religion is really more for the glory of God, and the good of mankind, than reason, without inspiration, has been able to teach. Christianity, without the additions and supplements of monks, is not only above all just exception, but preferable to any other scheme.381 The death of the author's 4th wife, and his behaviour thereupon.382 The case of a lady in a fever, and an account of four physicians who attended her.383 Of Eclectics.384 Of reason and truth.385 Of Integrity.386 Of Priestcraft in the transmission of moveables, from the deceased to the living.387 * Note, This article relating to the encroachments of the clergy, was not found among Miss Spence's papers, but is inserted here as in a proper place.388 * Discourse of laws. p. 1, and 66. and New abridgement of the law. p. 398.389 * New abridgement of the law. p. 398.390 Of the Athanasian creed.391 An account of Richmond the beau, and old Ribble the chemist.392 The picture of beau Richmond.393 The picture of a temperate man, born with a consumption.394 A history of metals.395 What phlogiston is.396 What semi-metals are.397 The nature and composition of Antimony.398 What butter of antimony is.399 Liver of antimony.400 How antimony separates gold from other metals.401 The excellence of antimonial wine.402 The nature of Bismuth.403 An extraordinary sympathetic Ink.404 Of Zinc.405 The nature of regulus of arsenic.406 The characters of gold.407 The wonderful ductility of gold.408 Mr. Ribble's conclusion, containing his religious thoughts and advice.409 A charming vale, and country house, in Nottinghamshire, the seat of Mr. Monckton.410 Character of Mr. Monckton.411 A bait at a lone inn, and the arrival of Miss Turner of Skelsmore vale.412 * See the Life of John Buncle, Vol. I. p. 404.413 The picture of Miss Turner.414 My address to Miss Turner.415 Miss Turner's answer: and our marriage.416 The Author's apology for marrying again so soon.417 [15] (15) The temple of Jupiter Ammon was situated on the south part of the desarts of Lybia, about 200 miles from the borders of Egypt. These desarts consisting of fluctuating sands are of a vast unknown extent, and by the rising of the wind, roll like waves of the sea, fall like snow, and have buried whole armies: But the spot in the middle of which the temple stood, is fine fixed land, seven miles in circumference, richly planted and watered with fountains and streams; a delightful and healthful place, though the vast desarts all round are scorching sands, without so much as one well or rivulet to be seen any where. Alexander the Great was there in the year 332, or 1 before Christ. And Cato in the year before Christ 46. Lucan gives a fine description of this march of Cato in his IXth book. -And of the spot where Ammon reigned, says- Here, and here only, through wide Lybia's space, Tall trees, the land, and verdant herbage grace. Here the loose sands by plenteous springs are bound, Knit to a mass, and moulded into ground: Here smiling nature wears a fertile dress, And all things here the present God confess. The Latin is vastly fine.    Esse locis superos testatur sylva per omnem Sola virens Libyen, nam quicquid pulvere sicco Separat ardentem tepida berenicida lepti, Ignorat frondes. Solus nemus abstulit Ammon. Sylvarum fons causa loco, qui putria terræ Alligat, et domitas unda connectit arenas. This spot in Lybia is to this day the same beautiful and wonderful place; the most charming piece of ground in the world, in the midst of the most horrible desarts; but instead of Corniger, (as Lucan calls Ammon) an African prince named Abu Derar, now reigns there, and his palace stands where the temple stood in Alexander's and Cato's time. I saw not long ago a gentleman who had been on the spot and told me this. He further said, that this king and his people had been converted to the christian religion by an Abyssinian priest, and had better notions of christianity than many of our great divines; for they have not a thought of trinity in unity; nor would they say, to gain the whole world, what the great Dr. Potter does in one of his sermons, to wit, that whatsoever pain or misery God himself did suffer in his human nature: Or as Trapp expresses himself in his discourse on the marriage at Cana,-A sweet smile sat on the face of the great God:- meaning Jesus: -Horrible sayings! O wretched orthodoxy! But they think, without daring to invent and add to the gospel, that Jesus Christ was (and was no more than) the Messias, sent by God for the salvation of mankind. At what time this Oracle of Jupiter Ammon ceased is not certain. We are sure it was of no reputation in the time of Trajan. All the Oracles ceased, when men opened their eyes, and laid aside their impertinent credulity. This was the true cause of the cessation; though the fathers ascribe it to the coming of the Saviour of the world. It was mere priestcraft to make money.418 The unfortunate death of Miss Turner, the author's fifth wife.419 [16] Homonœa and Atimetus: and the epitaph of Homonœa at large. (16) These lines from the antiquities of Boissard, are a real inscription on a tomb in Italy, which this antiquary found in his travels, and copied it as a curiosity to the world. It is to be seen on the monument to this day. Homonœa was a great beauty at the court of the Emperor Honorius, and married to Atimetus, a courtier and favourite, who preferred her to the most illustrious of ladies of that time, on account of her extraordinary charms, and uncommon perfections; but she did not long enjoy the honour and happiness she was married into. Before she was twenty, death snatched her away, in the year of the reign of Honorius, A. D. 401. and the following beautiful epitaph was cut on her monument, and remains to this day: I place it here for the entertainment of my readers, and likewise La Fontaine's elegant translation of it. Homonœa's Epitaph.    Si pensare animas sinerent crudelia fata, Et posset redimi morte aliena salus: Quantulacunque meæ debentur tempora vitæ Pensarem pro te, cara Homonœa, libens. At nunc quod possum, fugiam lucemque deosque, Ut te matura per stuga morte sequar. [Atimetus the husband, is the speaker of these six lines.]    Parce tuam conjux fletu quassare juventam, Fataque merendo sollicitare mea. Nil prosunt lacrumæ, nec possunt fata moveri. Viximus: hic omnes exitus unus habet. Parce, ita non unquam similem experiare dolorem. Et faveant votis numina cuncta tuis! Quodque mihi eripuit mors immatura juventæ, Hoc tibi victuro proroget ulterius. [Homonœa is supposed to speak these eight lines, to her husband; and then relates her case to the traveller, who is passing by.]    Tu qui secura procedis mente parumper Siste gradum quæso, verbaque pauca lege. Illa ego quæ claris fueram prælata puellis, Hoc Homonœa brevi condita sum tumulo, Cui formam paphia, et charites, tribuere decorem, Quam Pallus cunctis artibus eruduit. Nondum bis denos ætas compleverat annos, Injecere manus invida fata mihi. Nec pro me queror; hoc morte mihi est tristius ipsa, Mœror Atimeti conjugis ille mihi. Sit tibi terra levis, mulier dignissima vitâ Quæque tuis olim perfruerêre bonis. [These two lines may be the words of the Public, or of whoever erected the monument to the memory of Homonœa.] Now see how finely La Fontaine has done this inscription into verse.    Si l'on pouvoit donner ses jours pour ceux d'un autre Et que par cet échange on contentat le sort, Quels que soint les momens qui me restent encore Mon ame, avec plaisir, racheteroit la votre. Mais le destin l'ayant autrement ariété, Je ne sçaurois que fuir les dieux & la clarté, Pour vous suivre aux enfers d'une mort avancée. Quittez, ô chere epoux, cette triste pensée, Vous alterez en vain les plus beaux de vos ans: Cessez de fatiguer par de cris impuissans, La parque et le destin, deïtez inflexibles. Mettez fin â des pleurs qui ne le touchent point; Je ne suis plus: tout tent â ce suprême poinct. Ainsi nul accident, par des coups si sensibles Ne vienne à l'avenir traverser vos plaisirs! Ainsi l'Olimpe entier s'accorde a vos desirs! Veüille enfin atropos, au cours de vôtre vie Ajoûter l'etenduë à la mienne ravire! Et toy, passant tranquille, apprens quels sont nos maux, Daigne icy t'arréter un moment a les lire, Celle qui preferée aux partis les plus hauts, Sur le ceur d'Atimete acquir un doux empire; Qui tenoit de venus la beauté de ses traits, De Pallas son sçavoir, des graces ses attraits, Gist sous ce peu d'espace en la tombe enserrée, Vingt soleils n'avoient pas ma carriere éclairés, Le sort jetta sur mois ses envieuses mains; C'est Atimete seul quit fait que je mens plains, Ma mort m'afflige meins que sa douleur amere. O femme, que la terre a tes os soit legere? Femme digne de vivre; et bientôt pusses-tu Recommencer de voir les traits de la lumieres, Et recouvrer le bien que ton ceur a perdu. Or thus in prose. S'il suffisoit aux destins qu'on donât sa vie pour celle d'un autre, et qu'il fût possible de racheter ainsi ce que l'on ayme, quelque soit le nombre d'années que les parques m'ont accordé, je le donnerois avec plaisir pour vous tirer de tombeau, ma chere Homonée; mais cela ne se pouvant, ce que je puis faire est de fuïr le jour et la presence de dieux, pour aller bientôt vous suivre le long du Styx. O mon chere epoux, cessez de vous affliger; ne corrompez plus le fleurs de vos ans; ne fatiguez plus ma destinée par de plaintes continuëlles: toutes les larmes sont icy vaines; on ne sauroit émouvoir la parque: me voila morte, chacun arrive à ce terme la. Cessez donc encore un fois: Ainsi puissiez-vous ne sentir jamais une semblable douleur! Ainsi tous les dieux soient favorable a vos souhaits! Et veüille la parque ajoûter a vôtre vie ce qu'elle a ravi à la mienne. Et toy qui passes tranquillement, arreté icy je te prie un moment ou deux, afin de lire ce peu de mots. Moy, cette Homonée que preferra Atimete a de filles considerables; moy a qui Venus donna la beauté, les graces et les agrémens; que Pallas enfin avoit instruite dans tous les arts, me voilà icy renfermée dans un monument de peu d'espace. Je n'avois pas encore vingt ans quand le sort jetta ses mains envieuses sur ma personne. Ce n'est pas pour moy que je m'en plains, c'est pour mon mari, de qui la douleur m'est plus difficile à supporter que ma propre mort. Que la terre te soit legere, ô épouse digne de retourner à la vie, et de recouvrer un jour que tu a perdu! N. B. The reader who does not understand French, will find this in English at the end of this XIth Section.420 The picture and character of Curl the Bookseller.421 The picture of Carola Bennet.422 History of Miss Bennet.423 A description of a London convent: and an adventure there.424 The history of Miss Bennet continued.425 A reflexion on hypocrites.426 Mr. Tench's conversation with Miss Bennet, in relation to religion.427 A reflexion on the conversion of Miss Bennet.428 Two Irish gentlemen call upon me, and bring me to a gaming table, kept by a company of sharpers, where I lose all my fortune.429 Curl's scheme to carry off an heiress, which I did in a successful manner.430 The picture of Miss Dunk.431 A winter night-scene on the mountains of Westmoreland.432 My arrival at Dr. Stanvil's house, and introduced to the Doctor, and company.433 The surprising story of Mrs. Stanvil.434 Finn's observation, and discourse in my bed-chamber, on the company's retiring to their apartments.435 Finn's account of Mrs. Stanvil, which he had from the servants.436 A reflexion on Miss Dunk's marrying Dr. Stanvil.437 My departure from Dr. Stanvil's house.438 Some observations on Mrs. Stanvil's coming to life again, after being taken out of the grave.439 [17] (17) As the table of Cebes does best in prose, and the Rev. Mr. Collier the Nonjuror's translation of this fine mythological picture is not good, I shall place another version of this table at the end of this Section. I made it at the request of a young lady, who did not like Mr. Collier's version. The fine picture does to be sure, in his English, look more like a work in the cant language of L' Estrange, or Tom Brown, than the antient and charming painting of Cebes the Theban philosopher. It is fitter to make the learned men of a beer-house laugh, than to delight and improve people of breeding and understanding.440 A reflexion as I rid from Dr. Stanvil's house.441 A tempest.442 [18] (18) In Claude's reply to Arnaud, the French papist, we are told it was the humour of the Prince of Conde, to have a man of wood on horse-back, drest like a field-officer, with a lifted broad sword in its hand; which figure was fastened in the great saddle, and the horse it was on always kept by the great Conde's side, when he travelled or engaged in the bloody field. Fearless the man of wood appeared in many a well-fought day; but as they pursued the enemy one afternoon through a forest, in riding hard, a bough knocked off the wooden warrior's head; yet still he galloped on after flying foes, to the amazement of the enemy, who saw a hero pursuing without a head. Claude applies this image to popery.443 The Author is informed of an old acquaintance of his, who lived not far from the inn he arrived at.444 [19] (19) The case was this. As I was returning one summer's evening from Tallow-Hills, where I had been to see a young lady, (mentioned in the beginning of my first volume,) I saw in a deep glen before me two men engaged; a black of an enormous size, who fought with one of those large broad swords which they call in Ireland, Andrew Ferraro; and a little thin man with a drawn rapier. The white man I perceived was no match for the black, and must have perished very soon, as he had received several wounds, if I had not hastned up to his relief. I knew him to be my acquaintance, young Fitzgibbons, my neighbour in the same square of the college that I lived in; and immediately drawing an excellent Spanish tuck I always wore, took the Moor to myself, Fitzgibbons not being able to stand any longer; and a glorious battle ensued. As I was a master at the small sword in those days, I had the advantage of the black by my weapon, (as the broad sword is but a poor defence against a rapier,) and gave him three wounds for every slight one I received: But at last he cut me quite through the left collar-bone, and in return, I was in his vast body a moment after. This dropt the robber, who had been a trumpeter to a regiment of horse; and Fitzgibbons and I were brought, by some people passing that way, to his father's house at Dolfins-barn, a village about a mile from the spot where this affair happened. A surgeon was sent for, and we recovered in a few weeks time; but my collar-bone was much more troublesome to me, than the wounds Fitzgibbons had were to him, tho' he lost much more blood. This was the ground of the obligation the doctor mentioned in his conversation with me,445 The picture of Julia Fitzgibbons.446 The Author marries Miss Fitzgibbons his seventh wife.447 * If Mangetus had published his Bibliotheca scriptorum medicorum, 2 vols. folio, at the time I am speaking of, the Doctor, my friend, would have recommended it to a beginner.448 Case of a young woman with a double vagina.449 [20] (20) When Vesalius began to dissect human bodies, he was considered by the people as an impious cruel man; and before he could practice publicly, he was obliged to get a decision in his favour from the Salamanca divines. C'est ce qui engagea Charles V. de faire faire une consultation aux theologiens de Salamanque, pour savoir si en conscience on pouvoit dissequer un corps humain, pour en connoître la structure. (Niceron Memoirs:) They would not let him settle in France; but the republic of Venice gave him a professor's chair at Padua, where he dissected publicly, and taught anatomy seven years. He was but 18, when he published his famous book, La fabrique du corps humain, which was the admiration of all men of science: And a little after, he made a present of the first skeleton the world ever saw, to the university of Bale; where it is still to be seen. This great man, Andrew Vesal, was born the last of April, 1512; and in the 58th year of his age, October 15, 1564, he was shipwreck'd on the isle of Zante, and in the deserts there was famished to death. His body was found by a goldsmith of his acquaintance, who happened to land there not long after, and by this man buried. Vesal's works are two volumes in folio, published by Herman Boerhaave, Lugduni Batavorum, 1725. Every physician ought to have them.450 * The Greek words which Mr. Collier renders town-manufacture, are ????t???? a?a??µa.451 † And what he calls outlandish, is ?????.452 * The Greek is, d??????t? ????a ?a? s???da?a.453 * ?s?s?? f????µ?? ?a? ??da?µ????.454 † af?????, ?a? ?a???da?µ????, ?a? ??????, ?a? aµa????.455 ‡ This monster, who lived near Thebes, was said to be the daughter of Typhon and Echidna, and had a head and face like a girl, wings like a bird, and in the rest, like a dog.456 * This man Mr. Collier calls, an ill-looking skeleton of a fellow, with scarce a tatter to his limbs. Cant! The Greek is, t?? d?s??d?? ???t??, ?a? ??µ???.457 * The three inclosures in Cebes, allude to the division of human life into the sensual, the studious, and the virtuous.458 * Mr. Collier translates it,-they enter into a course of physic. The Greek is, ?a? ???st? t?? ?a?a?t???? d??µ?? t??t??. And what Mr. Collier a little before translates, -She opens a vein, and gives them a glass of her constitution: -when they have taken the stirrup cup:-brimmers: -the lasses frisk about: Salute with a deal of welcome, and then lug them off,-some to ruin, and some to the gallows: -All this, and much more night-cellar stuff, the Theban philosopher had not an idea of, as any one may see who can turn to the Greek. How Collier learned such guard-phrases, and why he used them, seemed for some time very strange to me, till I was informed by one who knew this Divine well, that in the days of his youth, he kept very low company, and was known at several night-houses. In that period of his life, he translated Cebes.459 * ???µ?????d??, ?a? f?t? ????? ?ata?aµ??µ????.460 † ?a??st????a t? ???s????, constanti vultu, or constans vultum.461 [21] (21) This is not all the table of Cebes. There follows a disputation in the Socratic method, concerning the claim of wealth, and other externals, to the title of good things: but it is dry, and no part of the picture or mythology. For this reason I stop here. As to the picture of Cebes, it is to be sure a fine thing, and greatly to the honour of the Theban philosopher, who was one of the disciples of Socrates; and about twenty at the time of the death of his master: Socrates died by the executioner, in the 70th year of his age, before our Lord, 402. -Cebes was about eighty, at the birth of Epicurus. A remark on the table of Cebes. But after all that can be said in praise of this excellent remain of antiquity, still the little system of ethics is but a poor performance, in respect of any section of the gospel of Christ. Cebes says nothing of the Deity: Nor does he mention the mischiefs of vice, and the benefits of virtue, as a divine constitution. An Apostle, on the contrary, (to mention only one particular out of a thousand from the christian books,) calls to the human race in the following manner: "" What is there in the table of Cebes like this spiritual and religious virtue, this love to God, this zeal for his honour and service, and an intire dependence upon him in all conditions of life? The virtues of the heroes of antiquity are noble and excellent qualities;-their courage, and justice, and temperance, and gratitude, and love to their country are fine things: but they seem to have been calculated for the civil life. Those heroes were virtuous without being pious, and appear rather as self-sufficient independent beings, than as servants and votaries of God Almighty. It is these Christian virtues I hove mentioned, that adorn and perfect human nature. It is these things that mostly contribute to the happiness of the world, and of every man in it. N. B. Mr. Scott, at the end of his Notes on Cebes, has the following remark. -If this philosopher had represented the effects of virtue and vice as a divine constitution, he would have ennobled his instruction, and done greater service to the interest of morality. But those important interests are effectually provided for by revelation. There the precepts of virtue are the laws of God. There we find a clear and compleat system of his will. There our obedience is encouraged by hope in his pardoning mercy and powerful assistance, by the life, death, and resurrection of his own son; and by promises and threatnings which extend the reward of righteousness, and the punishment of wickedness unto a future state of existence.462 [22] (22) Sir Robert Stapylton has done this Satire in the following manner.    In all th' earth, from Cales westward to the streams Of Ganges gilded with the morning beams. To few men good and ill unmask'd appear, For what with reason do we hope or fear? What hast thou by thy happiest project gain'd, But thou repent'st thy pains and wish obtain'd? Mr. Dryden's translation is by far the finest, to be sure. It is a charming thing: but whether it comes so near the intended humour and brisk turns of Juvenal, as a third translation the Reader will find at the end of this section, may admit of some consideration. -I add here the sixteen last lines of Dryden's Version, the most beautiful part of the Satire; that it may be near for comparing with the translation I have mentioned. - And for the same reason, I likewise place here the same number of lines done by Stapylton.    Yet not to rob the priests of pious gain, That altars be not wholly built in vain: Forgive the gods the rest, and stand confin'd To health of body, and content of mind; A soul that can securely death defy, And count it nature's privilege to die; Serene and manly, hardned to sustain The load of life, and exercis'd in pain; Guiltless of hate, and proof against desire; That all things weighs, and nothing can admire; That dares prefer the toils of Hercules To dalliance, banquets, and ignoble ease. The path to peace is virtue: What I show, Thyself may freely on thyself bestow: Fortune was never worshipp'd by the wise; But, set aloft by fools, usurps the skies. Dryden.    Yet that for sacrifice thou may'st prepare Thy white hog, and for something make thy pray'r. Pray that the Gods be graciously inclin'd, To grant thee health of body, and of mind. Ask a strong soul that may death's terrors scorn, And think to die, as good as to be born: As great a gift of nature, that no cross Can daunt, that knows no passion, fears no loss: That Hercules his labours can digest, Far better than Sardanapalus's feast, His wenches, or his feather-beds; I show What thou thyself may'st on thyself bestow. The path to peace is virtue; All the powers Will be our own, if wisdom be but ours: And yet to thee, vain fortune, we have given The name of goddess, and plac'd thee in heav'n. Stapylton.    Ut tamen et poscas aliquid, voveasque sacellis Exta, et candiduli divina tomacula porci: Orandum est, ut sit mens sana in corpore sano. Fortem posce animum, et mortis terrore carentem, Qui spatium vitæ extremum inter munera ponat Naturæ, qui ferre queat quoscunque labores, Et venere, et cœnis, et pluma Sardanapali; Monstro, quod ipse tibi possis dare: semita certè, Tranquillæ per virtutem patet unica vitæ. Nullum numen habes, si sit prudentia: sed te Nos facimus, fortuna, deam, cœloque locamus. Juvenal.
463 The unfortunate death of Julia.464 A reflexion on the death of Julia.465 Thoughts on wives and whores.466 The state of Orton-lodge, on my arrival there.467 A reflexion on popery.468 [23] An Address to the Protestant Ladies of Great Britain. (23) What a thing, Ladies, is Popery! Whether we consider it in a religious view, or regard it as a political contrivance, to gratify the avarice, and ambition of the clergy, it appears the just object of our contempt, as well as of our abhorrence. It does not only make its priests the slaughterers of mankind; witness the inquisition, the Morisco's, Thorn ** The Morisco's were expelled Spain, A. D. 1492. ----The inquisition was erected four years after;---and the doings at Thorn, (by which the quantity of blood formerly spilt on the ground by ever-cursed Popery was increased) in the year 1724. , England, Ireland, France, the Low Countries, Hungary, and other theatres of barbarity, the most shocking and inhuman; but it causes even husbands to become mere devils to wives, who are angels of women in mind and body, and can only be charged with their being protestants. So Burk the papist behaved to one of the finest and most excellent women I have seen. Nor was this lady the only unhappy one I have known made so by popish husbands. I have seen a thousand protestant wives, the most amiable and worthy women, as wretched as cruelty could make them, by their husband's zeal for the mass-priests religion; a religion fit only for hell, and that ought to make every protestant female tremble at the idea of a catholic husband: He may be as kind and good to a Romish wife, as it is possible for man to be to a woman; but if he marries a protestant, he must be a Satan to her by virtue of his religion. Never hearken then, O ye protestant ladies, to a popish suitor; however rich or outwardly agreeable he may be. Think of the principles and spirit of that church, whose unsuccessful attempts on our religion and liberties, have given occasion for the solemnity of the 5th of November, and that of the 23d of October. Blood and cruelty are her constitution: And by those principles and practices with regard to civil society, as well as by her doctrines, she promotes infidelity, and strives to render the word of God of none effect. She destroys the credibility of the gospel. -Could that religion come down from heaven, which claims a right not only to persecute single persons, but to devote whole nations to destruction by the blackest treachery, and most inhuman massacres;-and which teaches such absurdities as transubstantiation, masses, purgatory, penances, indulgences, and attrition: - Absurdities that dissipate the poor Romans of those guilty fears, which natural conscience might otherwise keep alive in men. Such things (without mentioning the adoration of the cross and other images, and the increasing multitude of imaginary mediators), intirely destroy the credibility of any system with which they are connected. God cannot be the author of a scheme which weakens and corrupts the law of nature. -No popery then for you.469 A remark on this lady.470 * The design of this fine Satire is to shew, that endowments and blessings of the mind, as wisdom, virtue, justice, and integrity of life, are the only things worth praying for.471 * The Latin of these two lines is- Cantabit vacuus coram latrone viator. Which Dryden translates thus- The beggar sings, ev'n when he sees the place Beset with thieves, and never mends his pace. Shadwell, Poet Laureat in King William's time, does it thus- While the poor man, void of all precious things, In company of thieves, jogs on and sings. Holiday thus- Before the thief, who travels empty, sings. Stapylton thus- The poor wayfaring man, that doth not bring A charge along, before the thief will sing.
472 * The Latin of these two lines is- Cantabit vacuus coram latrone viator. Which Dryden translates thus- The beggar sings, ev'n when he sees the place Beset with thieves, and never mends his pace. Shadwell, Poet Laureat in King William's time, does it thus- While the poor man, void of all precious things, In company of thieves, jogs on and sings. Holiday thus- Before the thief, who travel empty, sings. Stapylton thus- The poor wayfaring man, that doth not bring A charge along, before the thief will sing.
473 † Juvenal here means Democritus.474 * The Latin of these two lines is- Propter quæ fas est genua incerare deorum. Which Mr. Dryden does not translate at all: -His lines are-    He laughs at all the vulgar cares and fears: At their vain triumphs, and their vainer tears: An equal temper in his mind he found, When Fortune flatter'd him, and when she frown'd: 'Tis plain from hence that what our vows request, Are hurtful things, or useless at the best.
475 * The Latin of these two lines is- Propter quæ fas est genua incerare deorum. Which Mr. Dryden does not translate at all: -His lines are-    He laughs at all the vulgar cares and fears: At their vain triumphs, and their vainer tears: An equal temper in his mind he found, When Fortune flatter'd him, and when she frown'd: 'Tis plain from hence that what our vows request, Are hurtful things, or useless at the best.
476 * Mr. Dryden's English is,-    Sejanus, almost first of Roman names, The great Sejanus, crackles in the flames: Form'd in the forge, the pliant brass is laid On anvils: And of head and limbs are made, Pans, cans, and piss-pots, a whole kitchen trade. The Latin is,-    Jam strident ignes, jam follibus atque caminis Ardet adoratum populo caput, et crepat ingens Sejanus: Deinde ex facie toto orbe secunda Fiunt urceoli, pelves, sartago, patellæ.
477 † Sejanus, the vile minister of Tiberius, was executed by order of the Emperor, A. D. 31. and to prevent his suspecting any such thing, and providing against the calamity, which the favourite might easily have done, as he commanded the Prætorians, and had all power given him, his master named him his collegue in the consulship; which of all things Sejanus most desired, and thought the highest mark of his sovereign's affection. So true it is that we know not what we wish for.478 * Julius Cæsar, who acquired the sovereign sway by art and slaughter, and when a tyrant, fell by his own desires.479 * The beautiful Latin is,- -Et laudis titulique Cupido Hæsuri saxis cinerum custodibus: ad quæ Discutienda valent sterilis mala robora ficus: Quandoquidem data sunt ipsis quoque fata sepulchris. Which Mr. Dryden renders in the following manner. This avarice of praise in times to come, Those long inscriptions crowded on the tomb, Should some wild fig-tree take her native bent, And heave below the gaudy monument, Would crack the marble titles, and disperse The characters of all the lying verse. For sepulchres themselves must crumbling fall In time's abyss, the common grave of all.
480 * The greatest street in Rome.481 † The Latin is,- -I demens currepur Alpes. Ut pueris placeas, et declamatio fias. Go, climb the rugged Alps, ambitious fool, To please the boys, and be a theme at school. Dryden.
482 [24] (24) As I had not room for all the Xth Satire, what is seen here, is rather an abridgement than an intire version: But the whole sense of the author is preserved, though several of his examples and illustrations are left out. And so excellent a thing, Dr. Burnet bishop of Salisbury thought this Satire, that in his famous Pastoral Letter he recommends it, (and the Satires of Persius), to the perusal and practice of the divines in his diocese, as the best common places for their sermons; and what may be taught with more profit to the audience, than all the new speculations of divinity, and controversies concerning faith; which are more for the profit of the shepherd, than for the edification of the flock. In the Satires, nothing is proposed but the quiet and tranquillity of the mind. Virtue is lodged at home, (as Mr. Dryden expresses it, in his fine dedication to the Earl of Dorset), and diffused to the improvement and good of human kind. Passion, interest, ambition, mystery, fury, and every cruel consequence, are banished from the doctrine of these stoics, and only the moral virtues inculcated, for the perfection of mankind. But so unreasonable and infatuated are our shepherds, too many of them I mean, that a rational christian cannot go to church without being shocked at the absurd and impious work of their pulpits. In town and country, almost every Sunday, those bright theologers are for ever on the glories of trinity in unity, and teaching their poor people that God Almighty came down from heaven to take flesh upon him, and make infinite satisfaction to himself. This is the cream of christianity, in the account of those teachers. The moral virtues are nothing, compared to a man or a woman's swallowing the divine mystery of an incarnate God Almighty. Over and over have I heard a thousand of them on this holy topic, sweating and drivelling at each corner of their mouths with eagerness to convert the world to their mysteries. -The adorable mystery! says one little priest, in my neighbourhood in Westminster. -The more incomprehensible and absurd it appears to human reason, the greater honour you do to heaven in believing it, says another wise man in the country. But tell me, ye excellent divines, tell me in print if you please, if it would not be doing more honour to the law of heaven, to inform the people, that the true christian profession is, to pray to God our Father for grace, mercy, and peace, through the Lord Jesus Christ; without ever mentioning the Athanasian scheme, or trinity in unity: (which you know no more of than so many pigs do, because it is a mere invention, and not to be found in the Bible): And in the next place, to tell your flocks in serious and practical address, that their main business is, as the disciples of the holy Jesus, a good life;-to strive against sin continually, and be virtuous and useful to the utmost of our power; -to imitate the purity and goodness of their great master, (the Author of eternal salvation to all them that obey him), and by repentance and holiness of heart, in a patient continuance in well-doing, make it the labour of their every day, to live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world: You must become partakers of a divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust, and by acquiring the true principles of christian perfection, render yourselves fit for the heavenly bliss. This, my dearly beloved brethren, is the great design of Christ and his gospel. You must receive Jesus Christ as your Saviour and Mediator,- you must be exercised unto godliness, and have the ways of God in your hearts. By a course of obedience and patience, you must follow the captain of our salvation to his glory. To this purpose, I say, our clergy ought to preach; and if in so saying, they think me wrong, I call upon them to tell me so in print, by argument; that I may either publicly acknowledge a mistaken judgment;- or prove, that too many ministers mislead christian people in the article of faith and practice. By the strict rules or christian simplicity and integrity, I shall ever act.483 The Author goes to visit Dr. Stanvil and his lady. Æ. 29, July 2, 1734.484 A question proposed to Dr. Stanvil, how the Spanish fly acts in blister-stupois.485 The Doctor's opinion, how the cantharides act on the body in blisters.486 The wisdom and goodness of God in the production of the Spanish fly, for the benefit of man.487 Dr. Stanvil's sudden death, and the cause of it.488 The character of Dr. Stanvil.489 [25] (25) N. B. Dr. Law is still master of Peter-House, Cambridge, and not only one of the most learned men of the age, but as fine a gentleman and as good a man as lives. His merits, I am sure, as a scholar and a christian, entitled him to the mastership of St. John's, on the death of Dr. Newcomb; tho' he lost it, as often the best men do in respect of things temporal. But notwithstanding all the fine learning of Dr. Law, I think he is mistaken in many of his notions, and especially in his Notes on Archbishop King's book of Evil; as I intend to shew in my Notes aforementioned: His Tritheism likewise requires a few animadversions; which I shall humbly offer with plainness, fairness, and freedom.490 [26] (26) N. B. Dr. Sherlock bishop of London died at Fulham, after a long and lingering illness, Saturday, July 18, 1761, three months after the great and excellent bishop Hoadley; who departed this life at Chelsea, April 20, 1761. Sherlock and Hoadley never agreed; and which of them was right I attempt to shew in my Notes on Men and Things and Books. Which will be published as soon as possible. Why I think Hoadley's Sermons far preferable to Sherlock's; (vastly beautiful tho' some things are in the discourses of the latter); and that my Lord of Winchester's plain account of the Supper is a most rational and fine performance; as gold to earth in respect of all that has been written against this book: -Why, I say, all Hoadley's Tracts are matchless and invulnerable, and that he was victor in the Bangorian controversy, the Reader will find in many considerations on these subjects in the book called Notes, &c. aforementioned.491 Mrs. Stanvil's behaviour on the death of her husband.492 * The Reader will find these Remarks of mine, on Lord Nottingham's Letter to Mr. Whiston, in my Notes relating to men, things, and books. Which will be published as soon as possible.493 [27] (27) It is a question with some, if this book was not written by the Doctor's visionary daughter, or by her and the Rev. Athanasian bigot, her brother. But as I knew the Doctor after he was a little crack'd with imaginary religion, and have heard him talk as in this book, I am positive it is his.494 [28] (28) N. B. The Rev. Nonjuror, Mr. William Law, the father of our Methodists, and the disciple of Jacob Behmen the theosopher, died at King's Cliff near Nottingham, April 13, 1761, seven days before bishop Hoadley; against whom he was a bitter writer in the Bangorian controversy. -I knew this famous visionary very well, and shall remark largely on his writings in my Notes relating to Men and Things and Books. Law was the most amazing compound I have ever seen. He was a man of sense, a fine writer, and a fine gentleman; and yet the wildest enthusiast that ever appeared among men. His temper was charming, sweet, and delightful; and his manners quite primitive and uncommonly pious: He was all charity and goodness, and so soft and gentle in conversation, that I have thought myself in company with one of the men of the first church at Jerusalem while with him. He had likewise the justest notions of christian temper and practice, and recommended them in so insinuating a manner, that even a rake would hear him with pleasure. I have not seen any like him among the sons of men in these particulars. It was wrong to put him in the Dunciad, and call him one Law, as Pope does. He was really a very extraordinary man; and to his honour be it remembred, that he had the great concern of human life at heart, took a deal of pains in the pulpit, and from the press, (witness his two fine books on a devout life,) to make men fear God and keep his commandments. He was a good man indeed. But what strange books did he write! His Appeal to the Deists-His Spirit of Prayer and Love-His earnest and serious Answer to Trapp-His Notes and Illustrations on Behmen-His Replies to Hoadley; and, what is stranger still, his abuse of bishop Hoadley, in his Appeal I have mentioned. Here, had I room, I would relate a very curious conversation that passed between Dr. Theophilus Bolton, archbishop of Cashell in Ireland, (a most excellent, most sensible, and most learned man,) and me, (at the third night's sale of archbishop King's library in Dublin,) in relation to Mr. Law. It happened on his Lordship's buying Jacob Behmen's Works for a pound, and then asking me, who stood by him, if I had read them, and could enable him to understand them? But this I must place in my Notes aforementioned.495 * As an abetter of arbitrary power, and for attempting to raise the prerogative.Publication title:and Conditions



