 
Tristram Shandy: The Second Edition
Sterne, Laurence.? The Life and Opinions Of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman .... 9 v. London: Printed for R. and J. Dodsley in Pall-Mall, 1760.
Author:Full text: 
Tristram Shandy
Vol. 1 

[Page ]

[Page ]

Title Page 
THE LIFE AND OPINIONS OF TRISTRAM SHANDY, Gentleman. 

??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? 
VOL. I. The Second Edition.
LONDON: Printed for R. and J. Dodsley in Pall-Mall: M.DCC.LX.


[Page ]

[Blank page]


[Page ]

To the Right Honourable Mr. PITT. 
SIR, 
Never poor Wight of a Dedicator had less hopes from his Dedication, than I have from this of mine; for it is written in a bye corner of the kingdom, and in a retired thatch'd house, where I live in a constant endeavour to fence against the infirmities of ill health, and other evils of life, by 
[Page ]
mirth; being firmly persuaded that every time a man smiles,-but much more so, when he laughs, that it adds something to this Fragment of Life. 
I humbly beg, Sir, that you will honour this book by taking it-(not under your Protection, -it must protect itself, but)- into the country with you; where, if I am ever told, it has made you smile, or can conceive it has beguiled you of one moment's pain-I shall think myself as happy as a minister of state;- perhaps much happier than any 
[Page ]
one (one only excepted) that I have ever read or heard of. 
I am, great Sir, 
(and what is more to your Honour,) 
I am, good Sir, 
Your Well-wisher, 
and most humble Fellow-Subject, 
The Author.

[Page ]

[Blank page]


[Page 1]
THE LIFE and OPINIONS OF TRISTRAM SHANDY, Gent.
CHAP. I. 
I Wish either my father or my mother, or indeed both of them, as they were in duty both equally bound to it, had minded what they were about when they begot me; had they duly consider'd how much depended upon what they were then doing;-that not only the production of a rational Being was concern'd in it, but that possibly the happy formation and temperature of his body, 
[Page 2]
perhaps his genius and the very cast of his mind;-and, for aught they knew to the contrary, even the fortunes of his whole house might take their turn from the humours and dispositions which were then uppermost: -Had they duly weighed and considered all this, and proceeded accordingly,-I am verily persuaded I should have made a quite different figure in the world, from that, in which the reader is likely to see me. - Believe me, good folks, this is not so inconsiderable a thing as many of you may think it;-you have all, I dare say, heard of the animal spirits, as how they are transfused from father to son, &c. &c.- and a great deal to that purpose: -Well, you may take my word, that nine parts in ten of a man's sense or his nonsense, his successes and miscarriages in this world depend upon their motions and activity, 
[Page 3]
and the different tracks and trains you put them into, so that when they are once set a going, whether right or wrong, 'tis not a halfpenny matter,-away they go cluttering like hey-go-mad; and by treading the same steps over and over again, they presently make a road of it, as plain and as smooth as a garden-walk, which, when they are once used to, the Devil himself sometimes shall not be able to drive them off it. 
Pray, my dear, quoth my mother, have you not forgot to wind up the clock? - Good G---! cried my father, making an exclamation, but taking care to moderate his voice at the same time,-Did ever woman, since the creation of the world, interrupt a man with such a silly question? Pray, what was your father saying? - Nothing. 

[Page 4]

CHAP. II. 
-Then, positively, there is nothing in the question, that I can see, either good or bad. -Then let me tell you, Sir, it was a very unseasonable question at least,-because it scattered and dispersed the animal spirits, whose business it was to have escorted and gone hand-in-hand with the HOMUNCULUS, and conducted him safe to the place destined for his reception. 
The Homunculus, Sir, in how-ever low and ludicrous a light he may appear, in this age of levity, to the eye of folly or prejudice:-to the eye of reason in scientifick research, he stands confess'd- a Being guarded and circumscribed with rights: -The minutest philosophers, 
[Page 5]
who, by the bye, have the most enlarged understandings, (their souls being inversely as their enquiries) shew us incontestably, That the Homunculus is created by the same hand,-engender'd in the same course of nature,-endowed with the same loco-motive powers and faculties with us: -That he consists, as we do, of skin, hair, fat, flesh, veins, arteries, ligaments, nerves, cartileges, bones, marrow, brains, glands, genitals, humours, and articulations;-is a Being of as much activity,-and, in all senses of the word, as much and as truly our fellow-creature as my Lord Chancellor of England. -He may be benefited, he may be injured,-he may obtain redress; -in a word, he has all the claims and rights of humanity, which Tully, Puffendorff, or the best ethick writers 
[Page 6]
allow to arise out of that state and relation. 
Now, dear Sir, what if any accident had befallen him in his way alone?- or that, thro' terror of it, natural to so young a traveller, my little gentleman had got to his journey's end miserably spent;-his muscular strength and virility worn down to a thread;-his own animal spirits ruffled beyond description, -and that in this sad disorder'd state of nerves, he had laid down a prey to sudden starts, or a series of melancholy dreams and fancies for nine long, long months together. -I tremble to think what a foundation had been laid for a thousand weaknesses both of body and mind, which no skill of the physician or the philosopher could ever afterwards have set thoroughly to rights. 

[Page 7]

CHAP. III. 
To my uncle Mr. Toby Shandy do I stand indebted for the preceding anecdote, to whom my father, who was an excellent natural philosopher, and much given to close reasoning upon the smallest matters, had oft, and heavily, complain'd of the injury; but once more particularly, as my uncle Toby well remember'd, upon his observing a most unaccountable obliquity, (as he call'd it) in my manner of setting up my top, and justifying the principles upon which I had done it,-the old gentleman shook his head, and in a tone more expressive by half of sorrow than reproach,-he said his heart all along foreboded, and he saw it verified in this, and from a thousand other observations he had made upon 
[Page 8]
on me, That I should neither think nor act like any other man's child: -But alas! continued he, shaking his head a second time, and wiping away a tear which was trickling down his cheeks, My Tristram's misfortunes began nine months before ever he came into the world. 
-My mother, who was sitting by, look'd up,-but she knew no more than her backside what my father meant,-but my uncle, Mr. Toby Shandy, who had been often informed of the affair,-understood him very well. 
CHAP. IV. 
I Know there are readers in the world, as well as many other good people in it, who are no readers at all,-who 
[Page 9]
find themselves ill at ease, unless they are let into the whole secret from first to last, of every thing which concerns you. 
It is in pure compliance with this humour of theirs, and from a backwardness in my nature to disappoint any one soul living, that I have been so very particular already. As my life and opinions are likely to make some noise in the world, and, if I conjecture right, will take in all ranks, professions, and denominations of men whatever,-be no less read than the Pilgrim's Progress itself-and, in the end, prove the very thing which Montaigne dreaded his essays should turn out, that is, a book for a parlour-window;-I find it necessary to consult every one a little in his turn; and therefore must beg pardon for going on a little further in the same way: For which cause, right glad 
[Page 10]
I am, that I have begun the history of myself in the way I have done; and that I am able to go on tracing every thing in it, as Horace says, ab Ovo. 
Horace, I know, does not recommend this fashion altogether: But that gentleman is speaking only of an epic poem or a tragedy;-(I forget which)-besides, if it was not so, I should beg Mr. Horace's pardon;-for in writing what I have set about, I shall confine myself neither to his rules, nor to any man's rules that ever lived. 
To such, however, as do not choose to go so far back into these things, I can give no better advice, than that they skip over the remaining part of this Chapter; for I declare before hand, 'tis 
[Page 11]
wrote only for the curious and inquisitive. 
-Shut the door.- 
I was begot in the night, betwixt the first Sunday and the first Monday in the month of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighteen. I am positive I was. -But how I came to be so very particular in my account of a thing which happened before I was born, is owing to another small anecdote known only in our own family, but now made publick for the better clearing up this point. 
My father, you must know, who was originally a Turkey merchant, but had left off business for some years, in order to retire to, and die upon, his paternal estate in the county of ---, was, I believe, 
[Page 12]
one of the most regular men in every thing he did, whether 'twas matter of business, or matter of amusement, that ever lived. As a small specimen of this extreme exactness of his, to which he was in truth a slave,-he had made it a rule for many years of his life,-on the first Sunday night of every month throughout the whole year,-as certain as ever the Sunday night came,-to wind up a large house-clock which we had standing upon the back-stairs head, with his own hands: -And being somewhere between fifty and sixty years of age, at the time I have been speaking of,-he had likewise gradually brought some other little family concernments to the same period, in order, as he would often say to my uncle Toby, to get them all out of the way at one time, and be no more plagued 
[Page 13]
and pester'd with them the rest of the month. 
It was attended but with one misfortune, which, in a great measure, fell upon myself, and the effects of which I fear I shall carry with me to my grave; namely, that, from an unhappy association of ideas which have no connection in nature, it so fell out at length, that my poor mother could never hear the said clock wound up,-but the thoughts of some other things unavoidably popp'd into her head,-& vice versâ:-which strange combination of ideas, the sagacious Locke, who certainly understood the nature of these things better than most men, affirms to have produced more wry actions than all other sources of prejudice whatsoever. 
But this by the bye. 

[Page 14]
Now it appears, by a memorandum in my father's pocket-book, which now lies upon the table, "" and, as it appears from the same authority, ""-it brings the thing almost to a certainty. However, what follows in the beginning of the next chapter puts it beyond all possibility of doubt. 
-But pray, Sir, What was your father doing all December,-January, and February? -Why, Madam,-he was all that time afflicted with a Sciatica. 

[Page 15]

CHAP. V. 
On the fifth day of November, 1718, which to the æra fixed on, was as near nine kalendar months as any husband could in reason have expected,-was I Tristram Shandy, Gentleman, brought forth into this scurvy and disasterous world of ours. -I wish I had been born in the Moon, or in any of the planets, (except Jupiter or Saturn, because I never could bear cold weather) for it could not well have fared worse with me in any of them (tho' I will not answer for Venus) than it has in this vile, dirty planet of ours,-which o' my conscience, with reverence be it spoken, I take to be made up of the shreds and clippings of the rest;-not but the planet is well enough, provided a man could be born 
[Page 16]
in it to a great title or to a great estate; or could any how contrive to be called up to publick charges, and employments of dignity or power;-but that is not my case;-and therefore every man will speak of the fair as his own market has gone in it;-for which cause I affirm it over again to be one of the vilest worlds that ever was made;-for I can truly say, that from the first hour I drew my breath in it, to this, that I can now scarce, draw it at all, for an asthma I got in scating against the wind in Flanders;- I have been the continual sport of what the world calls fortune; and though I will not wrong her by saying, She has ever made me feel the weight of any great or signal evil;-yet with all the good temper in the world, I affirm it of her, that in every stage of my life, and ate very turn and corner where she could 
[Page 17]
get fairly at me, the ungracious Duchess has pelted me with a set of as pitiful misadventures and cross accidents as ever small Hero sustained. 
CHAP. VI. 
In the beginning of the last chapter, I inform'd you exactly when I was born;-but I did not inform you, how. No; that particular was reserved entirely for a chapter by itself;-besides, Sir, as you and I are in a manner perfect strangers to each other, it would not have been proper to have let you into too many circumstances relating to myself all at once. -You must have a little patience. I have undertaken, you see, to write not only my life, but my opinions also; hoping and expecting that your knowledge 
[Page 18]
of my character, and of what kind of a mortal I am, by the one, would give you a better relish for the other: As you proceed further with me, the slight acquaintance which is now beginning betwixt us, will grow into familiarity; and that, unless one of us is in fault, will terminate in friendship. -O diem præclarum! -then nothing which has touched me will be thought trifling in its nature, or tedious in its telling. Therefore, my dear friend and companion, if you should think me somewhat sparing of my narrative on my first setting out,-bear with me,-and let me go on, and tell my story my own way:-or if I should seem now and then to trifle upon the road,-or should sometimes put on a fool's cap with a bell to it, for a moment or two as we pass along,-don't fly off,-but rather courteously give me 
[Page 19]
credit for a little more wisdom than appears upon my outside;-and as we jogg on, either laugh with me, or at me, or in short, do any thing,-only keep your temper. 
CHAP. VII. 
In the same village where my father and my mother dwelt, dwelt also a thin, upright, motherly, notable, good old body of a midwife, who, with the help of a little plain good sense, and some years full employment in her business, in which she had all along trusted little to her own efforts, and a great deal to those of dame nature,-had acquired, in her way, no small degree of reputation in the world;-by which word world, need I in this place inform your worship, 
[Page 20]
that I would be understood to mean no more of it, than a small circle described upon the circle of the great world, of four English miles diameter, or thereabouts, of which the cottage where the good old woman lived, is supposed to be the centre. -She had been left it, seems, a widow in great distress, with three or four small children, in her forty-seventh year; and as she was at that time a person of decent carriage,-grave deportment, -a woman moreover of few words, and withall an object of compassion, whose distress and silence under it call'd out the louder for a friendly lift: the wife of the parson of the parish was touch'd with pity; and having often lamented an inconvenience, to which her husband's flock had for many years been exposed, inasmuch, as there was no such thing as a midwife, of any kind or degree 
[Page 21]
to be got at, let the case have been never so urgent, within less than six or seven long miles riding; which said seven long miles in dark nights and dismal roads, the country thereabouts being nothing but a deep clay, was almost equal to fourteen; and that in effect was sometimes next to having no midwife at all; it came into her head, that it would be doing as seasonable a kindness to the whole parish, as to the poor creature herself, to get her a little instructed in some of the plain principles of the business, in order to set her up in it. As no woman thereabouts was better qualified to execute the plan she had formed than herself, the Gentlewoman very charitably undertook it; and having great influence over the female part of the parish, she found no difficulty in effecting it to the utmost of her wishes. In truth, the parson join'd his interest 
[Page 22]
with his wife's in the whole affair; and in order to do things as they should be, and give the poor soul as good a title by law to practise, as his wife had given by institution,-he chearfully paid the fees for the ordinaries licence himself, amounting, in the whole, to the sum of eighteen shillings and fourpence; so that, betwixt them both, the good woman was fully invested in the real and corporal possession of her office, together with all its rights, members, and appurtenances whatsoever. 
These last words, you must know, were not according to the old form in which such licences, faculties, and powers usually ran, which in like cases had heretofore been granted to the sisterhood. But it was according to a neat Formula of Didius his own devising, who having 
[Page 23]
a particular turn for taking to pieces, and new framing over again, all kind of instruments in that way, not only hit upon this dainty amendment, but coax'd many of the old licensed matrons in the neighbourhood, to open their faculties afresh, in order to have this whim-wham of his inserted. 
I own I never could envy Didius in these kinds of fancies of his: -But every man to his own taste. -Did not Dr. Kunastrokius, that great man, at his leisure hours, take the greatest delight imaginable in combing of asses tails, and plucking the dead hairs out with his teeth, though he had tweezers always in his pocket? Nay, if you come to that, Sir, have not the wisest of men in all ages, not excepting Solomon himself,-have they not had their Hobby-Horses;-their running 
[Page 24]
horses,-their coins and their cockle-shells, their drums and their trumpets, their fiddles, their pallets,-their maggots and their butterflies?-and so long as a man rides his Hobby-Horse peaceably and quietly along the King's highway, and neither compels you or me to get up behind him,-pray, Sir, what have either you or I to do with it? 
CHAP. VIII. 
-Degustibus non est disputandum;-that is, there is no disputing against Hobby-Horses; and, for my part, I seldom do; nor could I with any sort of grace, had I been an enemy to them at the bottom; for happening, at certain intervals and changes of the Moon, to be both fiddler and painter, according as the fly stings: -Be it known to you, that I 
[Page 25]
keep a couple of pads myself, upon which, in their turns, (nor do I care who knows it) I frequently ride out and take the air;-tho' sometimes, to my shame be it spoken, I take somewhat longer journies than what a wise man would think altogether right. -But the truth is,-I am not a wise man;-and besides am a mortal of so little consequence in the world, it is not much matter what I do; so I seldom fret or fume at all about it: Nor does it much disturb my rest when I see such great Lords and tall Personages as hereafter follow;-such, for instance, as my Lord A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, and so on, all of a row, mounted upon their several horses;-some with large stirrups, getting on in a more grave and sober pace;-others on the contrary, tuck'd up to their very chins, with whips across 
[Page 26]
their mouths, scouring and scampering it away like so many little party colour'd devils astride a mortgage,-and as if some of them were resolved to break their necks. -So much the better-say I to myself;-for in case the worst should happen, the world will make a shift to do excellently well without them;-and for the rest,-why,-God speed them,-e'en let them ride on without opposition from me; for were their lordships unhorsed this very night,-'tis ten to one but that many of them would be worse mounted by one half before tomorrow morning. 
Not one of these instances therefore can be said to break in upon my rest. - But there is an instance, which I own puts me off my guard, and that is, when I see one born for great actions, and, what is 
[Page 27]
still more for his honour, whose nature ever inclines him to good ones;- when I behold such a one, my Lord, like yourself, whose principles and conduct are as generous and noble as his blood, and whom, for that reason, a corrupt world cannot spare one moment;-when I see such a one, my Lord, mounted, though it is but for a minute beyond the time which my love to my country has prescribed to him, and my zeal for his glory wishes,-then, my Lord, I cease to be a philosopher, and in the first transport of an honest impatience, I wish the Hobby-Horse, with all his fraternity, at the Devil. 

My Lord, 
"" 

[Page 29]

CHAP. IX. 
I Solemnly declare to all mankind, that the above dedication was made for no one Prince, Prelate, Pope, or Potentate, -Duke, Marquis, Earl, Viscount, or Baron of this, or any other Realm in Christendom;-nor has it yet been hawk'd about, or offered publickly or privately, directly or indirectly, to any one person or personage, great or small; but is honestly a true Virgin-Dedication untried on, upon any soul living. 
I labour this point so particularly, merely to remove any offence or objection which might arise against it, from the manner in which I propose to make the most of it;-which is the putting 
[Page 30]
it up fairly to publick sale; which I now do. 
-Every author has a way of his own, in bringing his points to bear;-for my own part, as I hate chaffering and higgling for a few guineas in a dark entry;-I resolved within myself, from the very beginning, to deal squarely and openly with your Great Folks in this affair, and try whether I should not come off the better by it. 
If therefore there is any one Duke, Marquis, Earl, Viscount, or Baron, in these his Majesty's dominions, who stands in need of a tight, genteel dedication, and whom the above will suit, (for by the bye, unless it suits in some degree, I will not part with it)-it is much at his service for fifty guineas;-which 
[Page 31]
I am positive is twenty guineas less than it ought to be afforded for, by any man of genius. 
My Lord, if you examine it over again, it is far from being a gross piece of daubing, as some dedications are. The design, your Lordship sees, is good, the colouring transparent,-the drawing not amiss;-or to speak more like a man of science,-and measure my piece in the painter's scale, divided into 20,-I believe, my Lord, the out-lines will turn out as 12,-the composition as 9,-the colouring as 6,-the expression 13 and a half,-and the design,-if I may be allowed, my Lord, to understand my own design, and supposing absolute perfection in designing, to be as 20,-I think it cannot well fall short of 19. Besides all this,-there is keeping in it, and 
[Page 32]
the dark strokes in the Hobby-Horse, (which is a secondary figure, and a kind of back-ground to the whole) give great force to the principal lights in your own figure, and make it come off wonderfully; -and besides, there is an air of originality in the tout ensemble. 
Be pleased, my good Lord, to order the sum to be paid into the hands of Mr. Dodsley, for the benefit of the author; and in the next edition care shall be taken that this chapter be expunged, and your Lordship's titles, distinctions, arms and good actions, be placed at the front of the preceding chapter: All which, from the words, De gustibus non est disputandum, and whatever else in this book relates to Hobby-Horses, but no more, shall stand dedicated to your Lordship. - The rest I dedicate to the Moon, who, by 
[Page 33]
the bye, of all the Patrons or Matrons I can think of, has most power to set my book a-going, and make the world run mad after it. 
Bright Goddess, 
If thou art not too busy with Candid and Miss Cunegund's affairs,-take Tristram Shandy's under thy protection also. 
CHAP. X. 
Whatever degree of small merit, the act of benignity in favour of the midwife, might justly claim, or in whom that claim truly rested,-at first sight seems not very material to this history;-certain however it was, that the gentlewoman, the parson's wife, did run away at that time with the whole of it: And yet, for my life, I cannot help thinking but that the parson himself, 
[Page 34]
tho' he had not the good fortune to hit upon the design first,-yet, as he heartily concurred in it the moment it was laid before him, and as heartily parted with his money to carry it into execution, had a claim to some share of it,-if not to a full half of whatever honour was due to it. 
The world at that time was pleased to determine the matter otherwise. 
Lay down the book, and I will allow you half a day to give a probable guess at the grounds of this procedure. 
Be it known then, that, for about five years before the date of the midwife's licence, of which you have had so circumstantial an account,-the parson we have to do with, had made himself a 
[Page 35]
country-talk by a breach of all decorum, which he had committed against himself, his station, and his office;-and that was, in never appearing better, or otherwise mounted, than upon a lean, sorry, jack-ass of a horse, value about one pound fifteen shillings; who, to shorten all description of him, was full brother to Rosinante, as far as similitude congenial could make him; for he answered his description to a hair-breadth in every thing,-except that I do not remember 'tis any where said, that Rosinante was broken winded; and that, moreover, Rosinante, as is the happiness of most Spanish horses, fat or lean,-was undoubtedly a horse at all points. 
I know very well that the Hero's horse was a horse of chaste deportment, which may have given grounds for a 
[Page 36]
contrary opinion: But it is as certain at the same time, that Rosinante's continency (as may be demonstrated from the adventure of the Yanguesian carriers) proceeded from no bodily defect or cause whatsoever, but from the temperance and orderly current of his blood. -And let me tell you, Madam, there is a great deal of very good chastity in the world, in behalf of which you could not say more for your life. 
Let that be as it may, as my purpose is to do exact justice to every creature brought upon the stage of this dramatic work,-I could not stifle this distinction in favour of Don Quixote's horse;-in all other points the parson's horse, I say, was just such another,-for he was as lean, and as lank, and as sorry a jade, as Humility herself could have bestrided. 

[Page 37]
In the estimation of here and there a man of weak judgment, it was greatly in the parson's power to have helped the figure of this horse of his,-for he was master of a very handsome demi-peak'd saddle, quilted on the seat with green plush, garnished with a double row of silver-headed studs, and a noble pair of shining brass stirrups, with a housing altogether suitable, of grey superfine cloth, with an edging of black lace, terminating in a deep, black, silk fringe, poudrè d'or,-all which he had purchased in the pride and prime of his life, together with a grand embossed bridle, ornamented at all points as it should be. -But not caring to banter his beast, he had hung all these up behind his study door;-and, in lieu of them, had seriously befitted him with just such a bridle and such 
[Page 38]
a saddle, as the figure and value of such a steed might well and truly deserve. 
In the several sallies about his parish, and in the neighbouring visits to the gentry who lived around him,-you will easily comprehend, that the parson, so appointed, would both hear and see enough to keep his philosophy from rusting. To speak the truth, he never could enter a village, but he caught the attention of both old and young. -Labour stood still as he pass'd,-the bucket hung suspended in the middle of the well,-the spinning-wheel forgot its round,-even chuck-farthing and shuffle-cap themselves stood gaping till he had got out of sight; and as his movement was not of the quickest, he had generally time enough upon his hands to make his observations,-to hear 
[Page 39]
the groans of the serious,-and the laughter of the light-hearted;-all which he bore with excellent tranquility. -His character was,-he loved a jest in his heart-and as he saw himself in the true point of ridicule, he would say, he could not be angry with others for seeing him in a light, in which he so strongly saw himself: So that to his friends, who knew his foible was not the love of money, and who therefore made the less scruple in bantering the extravagance of his humour,-instead of giving the true cause,-he chose rather to join in the laugh against himself; and as he never carried one single ounce of flesh upon his own bones, being altogether as spare a figure as his beast,-he would sometimes insist upon it, that the horse was as good as the rider deserved;-that they were, centaur-like,-both of a piece. At other 
[Page 40]
times, and in other moods, when his spirits were above the temptation of false wit,-he would say, he found himself going off fast in a consumption; and, with great gravity, would pretend, he could not bear the sight of a fat horse without a dejection of heart, and a sensible alteration in his pulse; and that he had made choice of the lean one he rode upon, not only to keep himself in countenance, but in spirits. 
At different times he would give fifty humourous and opposite reasons for riding a meek-spirited jade of a broken-winded horse, preferably to one of mettle; -for on such a one he could sit mechanically, and meditate as delightfully de vanitate mundi et fugâ sæculi, as with the advantage of a death's head before him;-that, in all other exercitations, he 
[Page 41]
could spend his time, as he rode slowly along,-to as much account as in his study;-that he could draw up an argument in his sermon,-or a hole in his breeches, as steadily on the one as in the other;-that brisk trotting and slow argumentation, like wit and judgment, were two incompatible movements. -But that upon his steed-he could unite and reconcile every thing,-he could compose his sermon,-he could compose his cough,-and, in case nature gave a call that way, he could likewise compose himself to sleep. -In short, the parson upon such encounters would assign any cause, but the true cause,-and he withheld the true one, only out of a nicety of temper, because he thought it did honour to him. 

[Page 42]
But the truth of the story was as follows: In the first years of this gentleman's life, and about the time when the superb saddle and bridle were purchased by him, it had been his manner, or vanity, or call it what you will,-to run into the opposite extream. -In the language of the county where he dwelt, he was said to have loved a good horse, and generally had one of the best in the whole parish standing in his stable always ready for saddling; and as the nearest midwife, as I told you, did not live nearer to the village than seven miles, and in a vile country,-it so fell out that the poor gentleman was scarce a whole week together without some piteous application for his beast; and as he was not an unkind-hearted man, and every case was more pressing and more distressful than the last,-as much as he loved his beast, 
[Page 43]
he had never a heart to refuse him; the upshot of which was generally this, that his horse was either clapp'd, or spavin'd, or greaz'd;-or he was twitter-bon'd, or broken-winded, or something, in short, or other had befallen him which would let him carry no flesh;-so that he had every nine or ten months a bad horse to get rid of,-and a good horse to purchase in his stead. 
What the loss in such a balance might amount to, communibus annis, I would leave to a special jury of sufferers in the same traffic, to determine;-but let it be what it would, the honest gentleman bore it for many years without a murmur, till at length, by repeated ill accidents of the kind, he found it necessary to take the thing under consideration; and upon weighing the whole, and summing it up 
[Page 44]
in his mind, he found it not only disproportion'd to his other expences, but withall so heavy an article in itself, as to disable him from any other act of generosity in his parish: Besides this he considered, that with half the sum thus galloped away, he could do ten times as much good;-and what still weighed more with him than all other considerations put together, was this, that it confined all his charity into one particular channel, and where, as he fancied, it was the least wanted, namely, to the child-bearing and child-getting part of his parish; reserving nothing for the impotent, -nothing for the aged,-nothing for the many comfortless scenes he was hourly called forth to visit, where poverty, and sickness, and affliction dwelt together. 

[Page 45]
For these reasons he resolved to discontinue the expence; and there appeared but two possible ways to extricate him clearly out of it;-and these were, either to make it an irrevocable law never more to lend his steed upon any application whatever,-or else be content to ride the last poor devil, such as they had made him, with all his aches and infirmities, to the very end of the chapter. 
As he dreaded his own constancy in the first,-he very chearfully betook himself to the second; and tho' he could very well have explain'd it, as I said, to his honour,-yet, for that very reason, he had a spirit above it; choosing rather to bear the contempt of his enemies, and the laughter of his friends, than undergo the pain of telling a story, which might seem a panegyric upon himself. 

[Page 46]
I have the highest idea of the spiritual and refined sentiments of this reverend gentleman, from this single stroke in his character, which I think comes up to any of the honest refinements of the peerless knight of La Mancha, whom, by the bye, with all his follies, I love more, and would actually have gone further to have paid a visit to, than the greatest hero of antiquity. 
But this is not the moral of my story: The thing I had in view was to shew the temper of the world in the whole of this affair. -For you must know, that so long as this explanation would have done the parson credit,-the devil a soul could find it out,-I suppose his enemies would not, and that his friends could not. -But no sooner did he bestir himself in behalf of the midwife, and pay the expences of 
[Page 47]
the ordinary's licence to set her up,-but the whole secret came out; every horse he had lost, and two horses more than ever he had lost, with all the circumstances of their destruction, were known and distinctly remembered. -The story ran like wild-fire. -"" 
What were his views in this, and in every other action of his life,-or rather what were the opinions which floated in the brains of other people concerning it, 
[Page 48]
was a thought which too much floated in his own, and too often broke in upon his rest, when he should have been sound asleep. 
About ten years ago this gentleman had the good fortune to be made entirely easy upon that score,-it being just so long since he left his parish,-and the whole world at the same time behind him,-and stands accountable to a judge of whom he will have no cause to complain. 
But there is a fatality attends the actions of some men: Order them as they will, they pass thro' a certain medium which so twists and refracts them from their true directions-that, with all the titles to praise which a rectitude of heart can give, the doers of them are 
[Page 49]
nevertheless forced to live and die without it. 
Of the truth of which this gentleman was a painful example. -But to know by what means this came to pass,-and to make that knowledge of use to you, I insist upon it that you read the two following chapters, which contain such a sketch of his life and conversation, as will carry its moral along with it. -When this is done, if nothing stops us in our way, we will go on with the midwife. 
CHAP. XI. 
Yorick was this parson's name, and, what is very remarkable in it, (as appears from a most antient account of the family, wrote upon strong vellum, 
[Page 50]
and now in perfect preservation) it had been exactly so spelt for near,-I was within an ace of saying nine hundred years;-but I would not shake my credit in telling an improbable truth, however indisputable in itself;-and therefore I shall content myself with only saying,-It had been exactly so spelt, without the least variation or transposition of a single letter, for I do not know how long; which is more than I would venture to say of one half of the best surnames in the kingdom; which, in a course of years, have generally undergone as many chops and changes as their owners. -Has this been owing to the pride, or to the shame of the respective proprietors? -In honest truth, I think, sometimes to the one, and sometimes to the other, just as the temptation has wrought. But a villainous affair it is, and will one 
[Page 51]
day so blend and confound us all together, that no one shall be able to stand up and swear, "" 
This evil had been sufficiently fenced against by the prudent care of the Yorick's family, and their religious preservation of these records I quote, which do further inform us, That the family was originally of Danish extraction, and had been transplanted into England as early as in the reign of Horwendillus, king of Denmark, in whose court it seems, an ancestor of this Mr. Yorick's, and from whom he was lineally descended, held a considerable post to the day of his death. Of what nature this considerable post was, this record saith not;-it only adds, That; for near two centuries, it had been totally 
[Page 52]
abolished as altogether unnecessary, not only in that court, but in every other court of the Christian world. 
It has often come into my head, that this post could be no other than that of the king's chief Jester;-and that Hamlet's Yorick, in our Shakespear, many of whose plays, you know, are founded upon authenticated facts,-was certainly the very man. 
I have not the time to look into Saxo-Grammaticus's Danish history, to know the certainty of this;-but if you have leisure, and can easily get at the book, you may do it full as well yourself. 
I had just time, in my travels through Denmark with Mr. Noddy's eldest son, whom, in the year 1741, I accompanied 
[Page 53]
as governor, riding along with him at a prodigious rate thro' most parts of Europe, and of which original journey perform'd by us two, a most delectable narrative will be given in the progress of this work. I had just time, I say, and that was all, to prove the truth of an observation made by a long sojourner in that country;- namely, "" which is, I think, very right. 
With us, you see, the case is quite different;-we are all ups and downs in this matter;-you are a great genius;- or 'tis fifty to one, Sir, you are a great dunce and a blockhead;-not that there is a total want of intermediate steps,- no,-we are not so irregular as that comes to;-but the two extremes are more common, and in a greater degree in this unsettled island, where nature, in her gifts and dispositions of this kind, is most whimsical and capricious; fortune herself not being more so in the bequest of her goods and chattels than she. 
This is all that ever stagger'd my faith in regard to Yorick's extraction, who, by what I can remember of him, and by all 
[Page 55]
the accounts I could ever get of him, seem'd not to have had one single drop of Danish blood in his whole crasis; in nine hundred years, it might possibly have all run out: -I will not philosophize one moment with you about it; for happen how it would, the fact was this: -That instead of that cold phlegm and exact regularity of sense and humours, you would have look'd for, in one so extracted; -he was, on the contrary, as mercurial and sublimated a composition,- as heteroclite a creature in all his declensions; -with as much life and whim, and gaité de cœur about him, as the kindliest climate could have engendered and put together. With all this sail, poor Yorick carried not one ounce of ballast; he was utterly unpractised in the world; and, at the age of twenty-six, knew just about as well how to steer his course 
[Page 56]
in it, as a romping, unsuspicious girl of thirteen: So that upon his first setting out, the brisk gale of his spirits, as you will imagine, ran him foul ten times in a day of some body's tackling; and as the grave and more slow-paced were oftenest in his way,-you may likewise imagine, 'twas with such he had generally the ill luck to get the most entangled. For aught I know there might be some mixture of unlucky wit at the bottom of such Fracas: -For, to speak the truth, Yorick had an invincible dislike and opposition in his nature to gravity; -not to gravity as such;-for where gravity was wanted, he would be the most grave or serious of mortal men for days and weeks together;-but he was an enemy to the affectation of it, and declared open war against it, only as it appeared a cloak for ignorance, or for 
[Page 57]
folly; and then, whenever it fell in his way, however sheltered and protected, he seldom gave it much quarter. 
Sometimes, in his wild way of talking, he would say, That gravity was an errant scoundrel; and he would add,-of the most dangerous kind too,-because a sly one; and that, he verily believed, more honest, well-meaning people were bubbled out of their goods and money by it in one twelve-month, than by pocket-picking and shop-lifting in seven. In the naked temper which a merry heart discovered, he would say, There was no danger,-but to itself:-whereas the very essence of gravity was design, and consequently deceit;-'twas a taught trick to gain credit of the world for more sense and knowledge than a man was worth; and that, with all its pretensions,-it was 
[Page 58]
no better, but often worse, than what a French wit had long ago defined it,-viz. A mysterious carriage of the body to cover the defects of the mind;-which definition of gravity, Yorick, with great imprudence, would say, deserved to be wrote in letters of gold. 
But, in plain truth, he was a man unhackneyed and unpractised in the world, and was altogether as indiscreet and foolish on every other subject of discourse where policy is wont to impress restraint. Yorick had no impression but one, and that was what arose from the nature of the deed spoken of; which impression he would usually translate into plain English without any periphrasis,-and too oft without much distinction of either personage, time, or place;-so that when mention was made of a pitiful or an 
[Page 59]
ungenerous proceeding,-he never gave himself a moment's time to reflect who was the Hero of the piece,-what his station,-or how far he had power to hurt him hereafter;-but if it was a dirty action,-without more ado,-The man was a dirty fellow,-and so on: - And as his comments had usually the ill fate to be terminated either in a bon mot, or to be enliven'd throughout with some drollery or humour of expression, it gave wings to Yorick's indiscretion. In a word, tho' he never sought, yet, at the same time, as he seldom shun'd occasions of saying what came uppermost, and without much ceremony;-he had but too many temptations in life, of scattering his wit and his humour,-his gibes and his jests about him. -They were not lost for want of gathering. 

[Page 60]
What were the consequences, and what was Yorick's catastrophe thereupon, you will read in the next chapter. 
CHAP. XII. 
The Mortgager and Mortgagée differ the one from the other, not more in length of purse, than the Jester and Jestée do, in that of memory. But in this the comparison between them runs, as the scholiasts call it, upon all-four; which, by the bye, is upon one or two legs more, than some of the best of Homer's can pretend to;-namely, That the one raises a sum and the other a laugh at your expence, and think no more about it. Interest, however, still runs on in both cases;-the periodical or accidental payments of it, just serving 
[Page 61]
to keep the memory of the affair alive; till, at length, in some evil hour,-pop comes the creditor upon each, and by demanding principal upon the spot, together with full interest to the very day, makes them both feel the full extent of their obligations. 
As the reader (for I hate your ifs) has a thorough knowledge of human nature, I need not say more to satisfy him, that my Hero could not go on at this rate without some slight experience of these incidental mementos. To speak the truth, he had wantonly involved himself in a multitude of small book-debts of this stamp, which, notwithstanding Eugenius's frequent advice, he too much disregarded; thinking, that as not one of them was contracted thro' any malignancy; -but, on the contrary, from an 
[Page 62]
honesty of mind, and a mere jocundity of humour, they would all of them be cross'd out in course. 
Eugenius would never admit this; and would often tell him, that one day or other he would certainly be reckoned with; and he would often add, in an accent of sorrowful apprehension,-to the uttermost mite. To which Yorick, with his usual carelessness of heart, would as often answer with a pshaw!-and if the subject was started in the fields,-with a hop, skip, and a jump, at the end of it; but if close pent up in the social chimney corner, where the culprit was barricado'd in, with a table and a couple of arm chairs, and could not so readily fly off in a tangent,-Eugenius would then go on with his lecture upon discretion, in 
[Page 63]
words to this purpose, though somewhat better put together. 
Trust me, dear Yorick, this unwary pleasantry of thine will sooner or later bring thee into scrapes and difficulties, which no after-wit can extricate thee out of. -In these sallies, too oft, I see, it happens, that a person laugh'd at, considers himself in the light of a person injured, with all the rights of such a situation belonging to him; and when thou viewest him in that light too, and reckons up his friends, his family, his kindred and allies,-and musters up with them the many recruits which will list under him from a sense of common danger; -'tis no extravagant arithmetic to say, that for every ten jokes,-thou hast got a hundred enemies; and till thou hast gone on, and raised a swarm of wasps 
[Page 64]
about thy ears, and art half stung to death by them, thou wilt never be convinced it is so. 
I cannot suspect it in the man whom I esteem, that there is the least spur from spleen or malevolence of intent in these sallies. -I believe and know them to be truly honest and sportive: -But consider, my dear lad, that fools cannot distinguish this,-and that knaves will not; and thou knowest not what it is, either to provoke the one, or to make merry with the other,-whenever they associate for mutual defence, depend upon it, they will carry on the war in such a manner against thee, my dear friend, as to make thee heartily sick of it, and of thy life too. 
Revenge from some baneful corner shall level a tale of dishonour at thee, 
[Page 65]
which no innocence of heart or integrity of conduct shall set right. -The fortunes of thy house shall totter,-thy character, which led the way to them, shall bleed on every side of it,-thy faith questioned, -thy works belied,-thy wit forgotten,-thy learning trampled on. To wind up the last scene of thy tragedy, Cruelty and Cowardice, twin ruffians, hired and set on by Malice in the dark, shall strike together at all thy infirmities and mistakes:-the best of us, my dear lad, lye open there,-and trust me,-trust me, Yorick, When to gratify a private appetite, it is once resolved upon, that an innocent and an helpless creature shall be sacrificed, 'tis an easy matter to pick up sticks enew from any thicket where it has strayed, to make a fire to offer it up with. 

[Page 66]
Yorick scarce ever heard this sad vaticination of his destiny read over to him, but with a tear stealing from his eye, and a promissory look attending it, that he was resolved, for the time to come, to ride his tit with more sobriety. -But, alas, too late!-a grand confederacy, with ***** and ***** at the head of it, was form'd before the first prediction of it. -The whole plan of the attack, just as Eugenius had foreboded, was put in execution all at once,-with so little mercy on the side of the allies,-and so little suspicion in Yorick, of what was carrying on against him,-that when he thought, good easy man! full surely preferment was o'ripening,-they had smote his root, and then he fell, as many a worthy man had fallen before him. 

[Page 67]
Yorick, however, fought it out with all imaginable gallantry for some time; till, over-power'd by numbers, and worn out at length by the calamities of the war,-but more so, by the ungenerous manner in which it was carried on,-he threw down the sword; and though he kept up his spirits in appearance to the last,-he died, nevertheless, as was generally thought, quite broken hearted. 
What inclined Eugenius to the same opinion, was as follows: 
A few hours before Yorick breath'd his last, Eugenius stept in with an intent to take his last sight and last farewell of him: Upon his drawing Yorick's curtain, and asking how he felt himself, Yorick, looking up in his face, took hold of his hand,-and, after thanking him 
[Page 68]
for the many tokens of his friendship to him, for which, he said, if it was their fate to meet hereafter,-he would thank him again and again. -He told him, he was within a few hours of giving his enemies the slip for ever. -I hope not, answered Eugenius, with tears trickling down his cheeks, and with the tenderest tone that ever man spoke,-I hope not, Yorick, said he. -Yorick replied, with a look up, and a gentle squeeze of Eugenius's hand, and that was all,-but it cut Eugenius to his heart. -Come,- come, Yorick, quoth Eugenius, wiping his eyes, and summoning up the man within him,-my dear lad, be comforted, -let not all thy spirits and fortitude forsake thee at this crisis when thou most wants them;-who knows what resources are in store, and what the power of God may yet do for thee? -Yorick 
[Page 69]
laid his hand upon his heart, and gently shook his head;-for my part, continued Eugenius, crying bitterly as he uttered the words,-I declare I know not, Yorick, how to part with thee,-and would gladly flatter my hopes, added Eugenius, chearing up his voice, that there is still enough left of thee to make a bishop,-and that I may live to see it. -I beseech thee, Eugenius, quoth Yorick, taking off his night-cap as well as he could with his left hand,-his right being still grasped close in that of Eugenius,-I beseech thee to take a view of my head. -I see nothing that ails it, replied Eugenius. Then, alas! my friend, said Yorick, let me tell you, that 'tis so bruised and mis-shapen'd with the blows which ***** and *****, and some others have so unhandsomely given me in the dark, that I might say 
[Page 70]
with Sancho Pança, that should I recover, and "" - Yorick's last breath was hanging upon his trembling lips ready to depart as he uttered this;-yet still it was utter'd with something of a cervantick tone;- and as he spoke it, Eugenius could perceive a stream of lambent fire lighted up for a moment in his eyes;-faint picture of those flashes of his spirit, which (as Shakespear said of his ancestor) were wont to set the table in a roar! 
Eugenius was convinced from this, that the heart of his friend was broke; he squeez'd his hand,-and then walk'd softly out of the room, weeping as he walk'd. Yorick followed Eugenius with his eyes to the door,-he then 
[Page 71]
closed them,-and never opened them more. 
He lies buried in a corner of his church-yard, in the parish of ---, under a plain marble slabb, which his friend Eugenius, by leave of his executors, laid upon his grave, with no more than these three words of inscription serving both for his epitaph and elegy. 
Alas, poor YORICK!
Ten times in a day has Yorick's ghost the consolation to hear his monumental inscription read over with such a variety of plaintive tones, as denote a general 
[Page 72]
pity and esteem for him;-a footway crossing the church-yard close by the side of his grave,-not a passenger goes by without stopping to cast a look upon it,-and sighing as he walks on, 
Alas, poor YORICK

[Page 73]

[Page 74]

[Page 75]

CHAP. XIII. 
It is so long since the reader of this rhapsodical work has been parted from the midwife, that it is high time to mention her again to him, merely to put him in mind that there is such a body still in the world, and whom, upon the best judgment I can form upon my own plan at present,-I am going to introduce to him for good and all: But as fresh matter may be started, and much unexpected business fall out betwixt the reader and myself, which may require immediate dispatch;-'twas right to take care that the poor woman should not be lost in the mean time;-because when she is wanted, we can no way do without her. 

[Page 76]
I think I told you that this good woman was a person of no small note and consequence throughout our whole village and township;-that her fame had spread itself to the very out-edge and circumference of that circle of importance, of which kind every soul living, whether he has a shirt to his back or no,-has one surrounding him;-which said circle, by the way, whenever 'tis said that such a one is of great weight and importance in the world,-I desire may be enlarged or contracted in your worship's fancy, in a compound-ratio of the station, profession, knowledge, abilities, height and depth (measuring both ways) of the personage brought before you. 
In the present case, if I remember, I fixed it at about four or five miles, which not only comprehended the whole parish, 
[Page 77]
but extended itself to two or three of the adjacent hamlets in the skirts of the next parish; which made a considerable thing of it. I must add, That she was, moreover, very well looked on at one large grange-house and some other odd houses and farms within two or three miles, as I said, from the smoke of her own chimney: -But I must here, once for all, inform you, that all this will be more exactly delineated and explain'd in a map, now in the hands of the engraver, which, with many other pieces and developments to this work, will be added to the end of the twentieth volume, -not to swell the work,-I detest the thought of such a thing;-but by way of commentary, scholium, illustration, and key to such passages, incidents, or inuendos as shall be thought to be either of private interpretation, or of dark 
[Page 78]
or doubtful meaning after my life and my opinions shall have been read over, (now don't forget the meaning of the word) by all the world;-which, betwixt you and me, and in spight of all the gentlemen reviewers in Great-Britain, and of all that their worships shall undertake to write or say to the contrary,- I am determined shall be the case. -I need not tell your worship, that all this is spoke in confidence. 
CHAP. XIV. 
Upon looking into my mother's marriage settlement, in order to satisfy myself and reader in a point necessary to be clear'd up, before we could proceed any further in this history;-I had the good fortune to pop upon the 
[Page 79]
very thing I wanted before I had read a day and a half straight forwards,-it might have taken me up a month;-which shews plainly, that when a man sits down to write a history,-tho' it be but the history of Jack Hickathrift or Tom Thumb, he knows no more than his heels what lets and confounded hinderances he is to meet with in his way,-or what a dance he may be led, by one excursion or another, before all is over. Could a historiographer drive on his history, as a muleteer drives on his mule,-straight forward;-for instance, from Rome all the way to Loretto, without ever once turning his head aside either to the right hand or to the left,-he might venture to foretell you to an hour when he should get to his journey's end;-but the thing is, morally speaking, impossible: For, if he is a man of the least spirit, he 
[Page 80]
will have fifty deviations from a straight line to make with this or that party as he goes along, which he can no ways avoid. He will have views and prospects to himself perpetually solliciting his eye, which he can no more help standing still to look at than he can fly; he will moreover have various 
Accounts to reconcile: 
Anecdotes to pick up: 
Inscriptions to make out: 
Stories to weave in: 
Traditions to sift: 
Personages to call upon: 
Panegyricks to paste up at this door: 
Pasquinades at that: -All which both the man and his mule are quite exempt from. To sum up all; there are archives at every stage to be look'd into, and rolls, records, documents, and endless genealogies, which justice ever 
[Page 81]
and anon calls him back to stay the reading of: -In short, there is no end of it;-for my own part, I declare I have been at it these six weeks, making all the speed I possibly could,-and am not yet born: -I have just been able, and that's all, to tell you when it happen'd, but not how;-so that you see the thing is yet far from being accomplished. 
These unforeseen stoppages, which I own I had no conception of when I first set out;-but which, I am convinced now, will rather increase than diminish as I advance,-have struck out a hint which I am resolved to follow;-and that is,- not to be in a hurry;-but to go on leisurely, writing and publishing two volumes of my life every year;-which, if I am suffered to go on quietly, and can make a tolerable bargain with my bookseller, 
[Page 82]
I shall continue to do as long as I live. 
CHAP. XV. 
The article in my mother's marriage settlement, which I told the reader I was at the pains to search for, and which, now that I have found it, I think proper to lay before him,-is so much more fully express'd in the deed itself, than ever I can pretend to do it, that it would be barbarity to take it out of the lawyer's hand: -It is as follows. 
"" -In three words,-"" 
But in order to put a stop to the practice of any unfair play on the part of my mother, which a marriage article of this 
[Page 90]
nature too manifestly opened a door to, and which indeed had never been thought of at all, but for my uncle Toby Shandy;- a clause was added in security of my father, which was this: -"" -This, by the way, was no more than what was reasonable;-and yet, as reasonable as it was, I have ever thought it hard that the whole weight of the article should have fallen entirely, as it did, upon myself. 

[Page 91]
But I was begot and born to misfortunes; -for my poor mother, whether it was wind or water,-or a compound of both,-or neither;-or whether it was simply the mere swell of imagination and fancy in her;-or how far a strong wish and desire to have it so, might mislead her judgment;-in short, whether she was deceived or deceiving in this matter, it no way becomes me to decide. The fact was this, That, in the latter end of September, 1717, which was the year before I was born, my mother having carried my father up to town much against the grain,-he peremptorily insisted upon the clause;-so that I was doom'd, by marriage articles, to have my nose squeez'd as flat to my face, as if the destinies had actually spun me without one. 

[Page 92]
How this event came about,-and what a train of vexatious disappointments, in one stage or other of my life, have pursued me from the mere loss, or rather compression, of this one single member,-shall be laid before the reader all in due time. 
CHAP. XVI. 
My father, as any body may naturally imagine, came down with my mother into the country, in but a pettish kind of a humour. The first twenty or five-and-twenty miles he did nothing in the world but fret and teaze himself, and indeed my mother too, about the cursed expence, which he said might every shilling of it have been saved;- then what vexed him more than every 
[Page 93]
thing else was the provoking time of the year,-which, as I told you, was towards the end of September, when his wall-fruit, and green gages especially, in which he was very curious, were just ready for pulling: -"" 
For the next two whole stages, no subject would go down, but the heavy blow he had sustain'd from the loss of a son, whom it seems he had fully reckon'd upon in his mind, and register'd down in his pocket-book, as a second staff for his old age, in case Bobby should fail him. "" 
From Stilton, all the way to Grantham, nothing in the whole affair provoked him so much as the condolences of his friends, and the foolish figure they should both make at church the first Sunday; -of which, in the satirical vehemence of his wit, now sharpen'd a little by vexation, he would give so many humorous and provoking descriptions,-and place his rib and self in so many tormenting lights and attitudes in the face of the whole congregation;-that my mother declared, these two stages were so truly tragi-comical, that she did nothing but laugh and cry in a breath, from one end to the other of them all the way. 

[Page 95]
From Grantham, till they had cross'd the Trent, my father was out of all kind of patience at the vile trick and imposition which he fancied my mother had put upon him in this affair. -""the woman could not be deceived herself;-if she could,- what weakness!-tormenting word! which led his imagination a thorny dance, and, before all was over, play'd the duce and all with him;""Alas o'day;-had Mrs. Shandy, poor gentlewoman! had but her wish in going up to town just to lye-in and come down again;-which, they say, she begg'd and pray'd for upon her bare knees,-and which, in my opinion, considering the fortune which Mr. Shandy got with her,-was no such mighty matter to have complied with, the lady and her babe might both of 'em have been alive at this hour.""Was I an absolute prince,""I would appoint able judges, at every avenue of my metropolis, who should take cognizance of every fool's business who came there;-and if, upon a fair and candid hearing, it appeared not of weight sufficient to leave his own home, and come up, bag and baggage, with his wife and children, farmers sons, &c. &c. at his backside, they should be all sent back, from constable to constable, like vagrants 
[Page 106]
as they were, to the place of their legal settlements. By this means I shall take care, that my metropolis totter'd not thro' its own weight;-that the head be no longer too big for the body;- that the extreams, now wasted and pin'd in, be restored to their due share of nourishment, and regain, with it, their natural strength and beauty: - I would effectually provide, That the meadows and corn-fields, of my dominions, should laugh and sing;- that good chear and hospitality flourish once more;-and that such weight and influence be put thereby into the hands of the Squirality of my kingdom, as should counterpoise what I perceive my Nobility are now taking from them. 

[Page 107]
"" he would ask, with some emotion, as he walked a-cross the room, "" 
Another political reason which prompted my father so strongly to guard against 
[Page 108]
the least evil accident in my mother's lying-in in the country,-was, That any such instance would infallibly throw a balance of power, too great already, into the weaker vessels of the gentry, in his own, or higher stations;-which, with the many other usurped rights which that part of the constitution was hourly establishing,-would, in the end, prove fatal to the monarchical system of domestick government established in the first creation of things by God. 
In this point he was entirely of Sir Robert Filmer's opinion, That the plans and institutions of the greatest monarchies in the eastern parts of the world, were, originally, all stolen from that admirable pattern and prototype of this houshold and paternal power;-which, for a century, he said, and more, had 
[Page 109]
gradually been degenerating away into a mix'd government;-the form of which, however desirable in great combinations of the species,-was very troublesome in small ones,-and seldom produced any thing, that he saw, but sorrow and confusion. 
For all these reasons, private and publick, put together,-my father was for having the man-midwife by all means,- my mother by no means. My father begg'd and intreated, she would for once recede from her prerogative in this matter, and suffer him to choose for her;- my mother, on the contrary, insisted upon her privilege in this matter, to choose for herself,-and have no mortal's help but the old woman's. -What could my father do? He was almost at his wit's end;-talked it over with her in all 
[Page 110]
moods;-placed his arguments in all lights;-argued the matter with her like a christian,-like a heathen,-like a husband,-like a father,-like a patriot, -like a man: -My mother answered every thing only like a woman; which was a little hard upon her;-for as she could not assume and fight it out behind such a variety of characters,- 'twas no fair match;-'twas seven to one. -What could my mother do? - She had the advantage (otherwise she had been certainly overpowered) of a small reinforcement of chagrine personal at the bottom which bore her up, and enabled her to dispute the affair with my father with so equal an advantage,- that both sides sung Te Deum. In a word, my mother was to have the old woman,-and the operator was to have licence to drink a bottle of wine with 
[Page 111]
my father and my uncle Toby Shandy in the back parlour,-for which he was to be paid five guineas. 
I must beg leave, before I finish this chapter, to enter a caveat in the breast of my fair reader;-and it is this: - Not to take it absolutely for granted from an unguarded word or two which I have dropp'd in it,-"" -I own the tender appellation of my dear, dear Jenny,-with some other strokes of conjugal knowledge, interspersed here and there, might, naturally enough, have misled the most candid judge in the world into such a determination against me. -All I plead for, in this case, Madam, is strict justice, and that you do so much of it, to me as well as to yourself,-as not to prejudge or receive such an impression of me, till 
[Page 112]
you have better evidence, than I am positive, at present, can be produced against me: -Not that I can be so vain or unreasonable, Madam, as to desire you should therefore think, that my dear, dear Jenny is my kept mistress;-no,- that would be flattering my character in the other extream, and giving it an air of freedom, which, perhaps, it has no kind of right to. All I contend for, is the utter impossibility for some volumes, that you, or the most penetrating spirit upon earth, should know how this matter really stands. -It is not impossible, but that my dear, dear Jenny! tender as the appellation is, may be my child. - Consider,-I was born in the year eighteen. -Nor is there any thing unnatural or extravagant in the supposition, that my dear Jenny may be my friend. - Friend!-My friend. -Surely, Madam, 
[Page 113]
a friendship between the two sexes may subsist, and be supported without- Fy! Mr. Shandy: -Without any thing Madam, but that tender and delicious sentiment, which ever mixes in friendship, where there is a difference of sex. Let me intreat you to study the pure and sentimental parts of the best French Romances;-it will really, Madam, astonish you to see with what a variety of chaste expression this delicious sentiment, which I have the honour to speak of, is dress'd out. 
CHAP. XIX. 
I Would sooner undertake to explain the hardest problem in Geometry, than pretend to account for it, that a gentleman of my father's great good 
[Page 114]
sense,-knowing, as the reader must have observed him, and curious too, in philosophy,-wise also in political reasoning, -and in polemical (as he will find) no way ignorant,-could be capable of entertaining a notion in his head, so out of the common track,-that I fear the reader, when I come to mention it to him, if he is the least of a cholerick temper, will immediately throw the book by; if mercurial, he will laugh most heartily at it;-and if he is of a grave and saturnine cast, he will, at first sight, absolutely condemn as fanciful and extravagant; and that was in respect to the choice and imposition of Christian names, on which he thought a great deal more depended than what superficial minds were capable of conceiving. 

[Page 115]
His opinion, in this matter, was, That there was a strange kind of magick bias, which good or bad names, as he called them, irresistibly impress'd upon our characters and conduct. 
The Hero of Cervantes argued not the point with more seriousness,-nor had he more faith,-or more to say on the powers of Necromancy in dishonouring his deeds,-or on Dulcinea's name, in shedding lustre upon them, than my father had on those of Trismegistus or Archimedes, on the one hand,-or of Nyky and Simkin on the other. How many Cæsars and Pompeys, he would say, by mere inspiration of the names, have been render'd worthy of them? And how many, he would add, are there who might have done exceeding well in the world, had not their characters and 
[Page 116]
spirits been totally depress'd and Nicodemus'd into nothing. 
I see plainly, Sir, by your looks, (or as the case happen'd) my father would say,-that you do not heartily subscribe to this opinion of mine,-which, to those, he would add, who have not carefully sifted it to the bottom,-I own has an air more of fancy than of solid reasoning in it;-and yet, my dear Sir, if I may presume to know your character, I am morally assured, I should hazard little in stating a case to you,-not as a party in the dispute,-but as a judge, and trusting my appeal upon it to your own good sense and candid disquisition in this matter; -you are a person free from as many narrow prejudices of education as most men;-and, if I may presume to penetrate further into you,-of a liberality 
[Page 117]
of genius above bearing down an opinion, merely because it wants friends. Your son!-your dear son,-from whose sweet and open temper you have so much to expect. -Your Billy, Sir!-would you, for the world, have called him Judas? -Would you, my dear Sir, he would say, laying his hand upon your breast, with the genteelest address,-and in that soft and irresistible piano of voice, which the nature of the argumentum ad hominem absolutely requires,-Would you, Sir, if a Jew of a godfather had proposed the name for your child, and offered you his purse along with it, would you have consented to such a desecration of him? -O my God! he would say, looking up, if I know your temper right, Sir,-you are incapable of it;-you would have trampled upon the offer;- 
[Page 118]
you would have thrown the temptation at the tempter's head with abhorrence. 
Your greatness of mind in this action, which I admire, with that generous contempt of money which you shew me in the whole transaction, is really noble;- and what renders it more so, is the principle of it;-the workings of a parent's love upon the truth and conviction of this very hypothesis, namely, That was your son called Judas,-the sordid and treacherous idea, so inseparable from the name, would have accompanied him thro' life like his shadow, and, in the end, made a miser and a rascal of him, in spight, Sir, of your example. 
I never knew a man able to answer this argument. -But, indeed, to speak of my father as he was;-he was certainly 
[Page 119]
irresistible, both in his orations and disputations;-he was born an orator;- ???????????. -Persuasion hung upon his lips, and the elements of Logick and Rhetorick were so blended up in him,- and, withall, he had so shrewd guess at the weaknesses and passions of his respondent, -that Nature might have stood up and said,-"" In short, whether he was on the weak or the strong side of the question, 'twas hazardous in either case to attack him: -And yet, 'tis strange, he had never read Cicero nor Quintilian de Oratore, nor Isocrates, nor Aristotle, nor Longinus amongst the antients;-nor Vossius, nor Skioppius, nor Ramus, nor Farnaby amongst the moderns;-and what is more astonishing, he had never in his whole life the least light or spark of subtilty struck into his mind, by one single 
[Page 120]
lecture upon Crackenthorp or Burgersdicius, or any Dutch logician or commentator; -he knew not so much as in what the difference of an argument ad ignorantiam, and an argument ad hominem consisted; so that I well remember, when he went up along with me to enter my name at Jesus College in ****,-it was a matter of just wonder with my worthy tutor, and two or three fellows of that learned society,-that a man who knew not so much as the names of his tools, should be able to work after that fashion with 'em. 
To work with them in the best manner he could, was what my father was, however, perpetually forced upon;- for he had a thousand little sceptical notions of the comick kind to defend,- most of which notions, I verily believe, 
[Page 121]
at first enter'd upon the footing of mere whims, and of a vive la Bagatelle; and as such he would make merry with them for half an hour or so, and having sharpen'd his wit upon 'em, dismiss them till another day. 
I mention this, not only as matter of hypothesis or conjecture upon the progress and establishment of my father's many odd opinions,-but as a warning to the learned reader against the indiscreet reception of such guests, who, after a free and undisturbed enterance, for some years, into our brains,-at length claim a kind of settlement there,-working sometimes like yeast;-but more generally after the manner of the gentle passion, beginning in jest,-but ending in downright earnest. 

[Page 122]
Whether this was the case of the singularity of my father's notions,-or that his judgment, at length, became the dupe of his wit;-or how far, in many of his notions, he might, tho' odd, be absolutely right;-the reader, as he comes at them, shall decide. All that I maintain here, is, that in this one, of the influence of Christian names, however it gain'd footing, he was serious;- he was all uniformity;-he was systematical, and, like all systematick reasoners, he would move both heaven and earth, and twist and torture every thing in nature to support his hypothesis. In a word, I repeat it over again;-he was serious;-and, in consequence of it, he would lose all kind of patience whenever he saw people, especially of condition, who should have known better,-as careless and as indifferent about the name 
[Page 123]
they imposed upon their child,-or more so, than in the choice of Ponto or Cupid for their puppy dog. 
This, he would say, look'd ill;-and had, moreover, this particular aggravation in it, viz. That when once a vile name was wrongfully or injudiciously given, 'twas not like the case of a man's character, which, when wrong'd, might hereafter be clear'd;-and, possibly, sometime or other, if not in the man's life, at least after his death,-be, somehow or other, set to rights with the world: But the injury of this, he would say, could never be undone;-nay, he doubted even whether an act of parliament could reach it: -He knew as well as you, that the legislature assum'd a power over surnames;-but for very strong reasons, which he could give, it had never 
[Page 124]
yet adventured, he would say, to go a step further. 
It was observable, that tho' my father, in consequence of this opinion, had, as I have told you, the strongest likings and dislikings towards certain names;-that there were still numbers of names which hung so equally in the balance before him, that they were absolutely indifferent to him. Jack, Dick, and Tom were of this class: These my father call'd neutral names;-affirming of them, without a satyr, That there had been as many knaves and fools, at least, as wise and good men, since the world began, who had indifferently borne them;-so that, like equal forces acting against each other in contrary directions, he thought they mutually destroyed each others effects; for which reason, he would often declare, 
[Page 125]
He would not give a cherry-stone to choose amongst them. Bob, which was my brother's name, was another of these neutral kinds of Christian names, which operated very little either way; and as my father happen'd to be at Epsom, when it was given him,-he would oft times thank heaven it was no worse. Andrew was something like a negative quantity in Algebra with him;-'twas worse, he said, than nothing. -William stood pretty high: -Numps again was low with him;-and Nick, he said, was the Devil. 
But, of all the names in the universe, he had the most unconquerable aversion for Tristram;-he had the lowest and most contemptible opinion of it of any thing in the world,-thinking it could possibly produce nothing in rerum naturâ, but what was extreamly mean and pitiful: 
[Page 126]
So that in the midst of a dispute on the subject, in which, by the bye, he was frequently involved,-he would sometimes break off in a sudden and spirited Epiphonema, or rather Erotesis, raised a third, and sometimes a full fifth, above the key of the discourse,-and demand it categorically of his antagonist, Whether he would take upon him to say, he had ever remember'd,-whether he had ever read,-or even whether he had ever heard tell of a man, call'd Tristram, performing any thing great or worth recording? - No-, he would say,-Tristram! -The thing is impossible. 
What could be wanting in my father but to have wrote a book to publish this notion of his to the world? Little boots it to the subtle speculatist to stand single in his opinions,-unless he gives them 
[Page 127]
proper vent: -It was the identical thing which my father did;-for in the year sixteen, which was two years before I was born, he was at the pains of writing an express Dissertation simply upon the word Tristram,-shewing the world, with great candour and modesty, the grounds of his great abhorrence to the name. 
When this story is compared with the title-page, -Will not the gentle reader pity my father from his soul?-to see an orderly and well-disposed gentleman, who tho' singular,-yet inoffensive in his notions, -so played upon in them by cross purposes;-to look down upon the stage, and see him baffled and overthrown in all his little systems and wishes; to behold a train of events perpetually falling out against him, and in so critical and cruel a way, as if they had purposedly 
[Page 128]
been plann'd and pointed against him, merely to insult his speculations. -In a word, to behold such a one, in his old age, ill-fitted for troubles, ten times in a day suffering sorrow;-ten times in a day calling the child of his prayers Tristram! -Melancholy dissyllable of sound! which, to his ears, was unison to Nicompoop, and every name vituperative under heaven. -By his ashes! I swear it,-if ever malignant spirit took pleasure, or busied itself in traversing the purposes of mortal man,-it must have been here;-and if it was not necessary I should be born before I was christened, I would this moment give the reader an account of it. 

[Page 129]

CHAP. XX. 
-How could you, Madam, be so inattentive in reading the last chapter? I told you in it, That my mother was not a papist. - Papist! You told me no such thing, Sir. Madam, I beg leave to repeat it over again, That I told you as plain, at least, as words, by direct inference, could tell you such a thing. -Then, Sir, I must have miss'd a page. -No, Madam, -you have not miss'd a word. - Then I was asleep, Sir. -My pride, Madam, cannot allow you that refuge. - Then, I declare, I know nothing at all about the matter. -That, Madam, is the very fault I lay to your charge; and as a punishment for it, I do insist upon it, that you immediately turn back, that is, as soon as you get to the next full stop, and read the whole chapter over again. 

[Page 130]
I have imposed this penance upon the lady, neither out of wantonness or cruelty, but from the best of motives; and therefore shall make her no apology for it when she returns back: -'Tis to rebuke a vicious taste which has crept into thousands besides herself,-of reading straight forwards, more in quest of the adventures, than of the deep erudition and knowledge which a book of this cast, if read over as it should be, would infallibly impart with them. -The mind should be accustomed to make wise reflections, and draw curious conclusions as it goes along; the habitude of which made Pliny the younger affirm, "" The stories of Greece and Rome, run over without this turn and application,-do less service, I affirm it, than the history of Parismus and 
[Page 131]
Parismenus, or of the Seven Champions of England, read with it. 
-But here comes my fair Lady. Have you read over again the chapter, Madam, as I desired you? -You have: And did you not observe the passage, upon the second reading, which admits the inference? -Not a word like it! Then, Madam, be pleased to ponder well the last line but one of the chapter, where I take upon me to say, "" Had my mother, Madam, been a Papist, that consequence did not follow. * 1 . 

[Page 132]
It is a terrible misfortune for this same book of mine, but more so to the Republick of Letters;-so that my own is quite swallowed up in the consideration of it,-that this self-same vile pruriency for fresh adventures in all things, has got so strongly into our habit and humours,-and so wholly intent are we upon satisfying the impatience of our concupiscence that way,-that nothing 
[Page 133]
but the gross and more carnal parts of a composition will go down: -The subtle hints and sly communications of science fly, off, like spirits, upwards;-the heavy moral escapes downwards; and both the one and the other are as much lost to the world, as if they were still left in the bottom of the ink-horn. 
I wish the male-reader has not pass'd by many a one, as quaint and curious as this one, in which the female-reader has been detected. I wish it may have its effects;-and that all good people, both male and female, from her example, may be taught to think as well as read. 
If the reader has the curiosity to see the question upon baptism, by injection, as presented to the Doctors of the Sorbonne,-with their consultation thereupon, it is as follows. 

[Page 134]
Memoire presenté à Messieurs les Docteurs de Sorbonne * 2 
Un Chirurgien Accoucheur, represente à Messieurs les Docteurs de Sorbonne, qu' il y a des cas, quoique trés rares, oú une mere ne sçauroit accoucher, & même oú l'enfant est tellement renfermé dans le sein de sa mere, qu' il ne fait parôitre aucune partie de son corps, ce qui seroit un cas, suivant les Rituels, de lui conférer, du moins sous condition, le baptême. Le Chirurgien, qui consulte, prétend, par le moyen d'une petite canulle, de pouvoir baptiser immediatement l'enfant, sans faire aucun tort à la mere. -Il demand si ce moyen, qu' il vient de proposer, est permis & légitime, et s'il peut s'en servir dans le cas qu' il vient d' exposer. 

[Page 135]
REPONSE.
Le Conseil estime, que la question proposée souffre de grandes difficultes. Les Théologiens posent d'un coté pour principe, que le baptéme, qui est une naissance spirituelle, suppose une premiere naissance; il faut être né dans le monde, pour renâitre en Jesus Christ, comme ils l'enseignent. S. Thomas, 3 part. quæst. 88. artic. 11. suit cette doctrine comme une verité constante; l'on ne peut, dit ce S. Docteur, baptiser les enfans qui sont renfermés dans le sein de leurs Meres, et S. Thomas est fondé sur ce, que les enfans ne sont point nés, & ne peuvent être comptés parmi les autres hommes; d'ou il conclud, qu'ils ne peuvent être l'object d'une action extérieure, pour recevoir par leur ministére, les sacremens nécessaires au salut: Pueri in maternis uteris existentes nondum prodierunt 
[Page 136]
in lucem ut cum aliis hominibus vitam ducant; unde non possunt subjici actioni humanæ, ut per eorum ministerium sacramenta recipiant ad salutem. Les rituels ordonnent dans la pratique ce que les théologiens ont établi sur les mêmes matiéres, & ils deffendent tous d'une maniére uniforme de baptiser les enfans qui sont renfermés dans le sein de leurs meres, s'ils ne font paroitre quelque partie de leurs corps. Le concours des théologiens, & des rituels, qui sont les régles des diocéses, parôit former une autorité qui termine la question presente; cependant le conseil de conscience considerant d'un coté, que le raisonnement des théologiens est uniquement fondé sur une raison de convenance, & que la deffense des rituels, suppose que l'on ne peut baptiser immediatement les enfans ainsi renfermés dans le sein de leurs meres, ce qui est contre la supposition presente; & d'un autre côté, considerant que les mêmes 
[Page 137]
théologiens enseignent, que l'on peut risquer les sacremens qu' Jesus Christ a établis comme des moyens faciles, mais nécessaires pour sanctifier les hommes; & d'ailleurs estimant, que les enfans renfermés dans le sein de leurs meres, pourroient être capables de salut, parce qu'ils sont capables de damnation;- pour ces considerations, & eu égard a l'exposé, suivant lequel on assure avoir trouvé un moyen certain de baptiser ces enfans ainsi renfermés, sans faire aucun tort à la mere, le Conseil estime que l'on pourroit se servir du moyen proposé, dans la confiance qu'il a, que Dieu n' a point laissé ces sortes d'enfans sans aucuns secours, & supposant, comme il est exposé, que le moyen dont il s'agit est propre à leur procurer le baptême; cependant comme il s'agiroit, en autorisant la pratique proposée, de changer une régle universellement établie, le Conseil croit que celui qui consulte doit s'addresser a son évêque, & à qui il appartient 
[Page 138]
de juger de l'utilité, & du danger du moyen proposé, & comme, sous le bon plaisir de l'evéque, le conseil estime qu'il faudroit recourir au Pape, qui a le droit d'expliquer les régles de l'eglise, et d' y déroger dans le cas, ou la loi ne sçauroit obliger, quelque sage & quelque utile que paroisse la maniére de baptiser dont il s'agit, le conseil ne pourroit l'approuver sans le concours de ces deux autorités. On conseile au moins à celui qui consulte, de s'addresser à son evêque, & de lui faire part de la presente décision, afin que, si le prelat entre dans les raisons sur lesquelles les docteurs soussignés s'appuyent, il puisse être autorisé dans le cas de nécessité, ou il risqueroit trop d' attendre que la permission fût demandée & accordée d'employer le moyen qu' il propose si avantageux au salut de l'enfant. Au reste le conseil, en estimant que l'on pourroit s'en servir croit cependant, que si les enfans dont il s'agit, venoient au monde, contre l'esperance 
[Page 139]
de ceux qui se séroient servis du méme moyen, il séroit nécessaire de les baptiser sous condition, & en cela le conseil se conforme à tous les rituels, qui en autorisant le baptême d'un enfant qui fait paroître quelque partie de son corps, enjoignent néantmoins, & ordonnent de le baptiser sous condition, s'il vient beureusement au monde. 
Déliberé en Sorbonne, le 10 Avril, 1733. 

A. Le Moyne,
L. De Romigny,
De Marcilly.

Mr. Tristram Shandy's compliments to Messrs. Le Moyne, De Romigny, and De Marcilly, hopes they all rested well the night after so tiresome a consultation. - He begs to know, whether, after the ceremony of marriage, and before that of 
[Page 140]
consummation, the baptizing all the Homunculi at once, slap-dash, by injection, would not be a shorter and safer cut still; on condition, as above, That if the Homunculi do well and come safe into the world after this, That each and every of them shall be baptized again (sous condition.) -And provided, in the second place, That the thing can be done, which Mr. Shandy apprehends it may, par le moyen d'une petite canulle, and sans faire aucun tort au pere. 
CHAP. XXI. 
-I wonder what's all that noise, and running backwards and forwards for, above stairs, quoth my father, addressing himself, after an hour and a half's silence, to my uncle Toby,-who 
[Page 141]
you must know, was sitting on the opposite side of the fire, smoking his social pipe all the time, in mute contemplation of a new pair of black-plush-breeches which he had got on;-What can they be doing brother? quoth my father,- we can scarce hear ourselves talk. 
I think, replied my uncle Toby, taking his pipe from his mouth, and striking the head of it two or three times upon the nail of his left thumb, as he began his sentence,-I think, says he: - But to enter rightly into my uncle Toby's sentiments upon this matter, you must be made to enter first a little into his character, the out-lines of which I shall just give you, and then the dialogue between him and my father will go on as well again. 

[Page 142]
-Pray what was that man's name,- for I write in such a hurry, I have no time to recollect or look for it,-who first made the observation, "" Whoever he was, 'twas a just and good observation in him. -But the corollary drawn from it, namely, "" -that was not his;-it was found out by another man, at least a century and a half after him: -Then again,-that this copious store-house of original materials, is the true and natural cause that our Comedies are so much better than those of France, or any others that either have, or can be wrote upon the Continent;-that discovery was not fully made till about the middle of king William's reign,-when the great Dryden, 
[Page 143]
in writing one of his long prefaces, (if I mistake not) most fortunately hit upon it. Indeed towards the latter end of queen Anne, the great Addison began to patronize the notion, and more fully explained it to the world in one or two of his Spectators;-but the discovery was not his. -Then, fourthly and lastly, that this strange irregularity in our climate, producing so strange an irregularity in our characters,-doth thereby, in some sort, make us amends, by giving us somewhat to make us merry with when the weather will not suffer us to go out of doors,-that observation is my own;- and was struck out by me this very rainy day, March 26, 1759, and betwixt the hours of nine and ten in the morning. 
Thus,-thus my fellow labourers and associates in this great harvest of our 
[Page 144]
learning, now ripening before our eyes; thus it is, by slow steps of casual increase, that our knowledge physical, metaphysical, physiological, polemical, nautical, mathematical, ænigmatical, technical, biographical, romantical, chemical, and obstetrical, with fifty other branches of it, (most of 'em ending, as these do, in ical) have, for these two last centuries and more, gradually been creeping upwards towards that ???? of their perfections, from which, if we may form a conjecture from the advances of these last seven years, we cannot possibly be far off. 
When that happens, it is to be hoped, it will put an end to all kind of writings whatsoever;-the want of all kind of writing will put an end to all kind of reading;-and that in time, As war begets poverty, poverty peace,-must, in 
[Page 145]
course, put an end to all kind of knowledge, -and then-we shall have all to begin over again; or, in other words, be exactly where we started. 
-Happy! thrice happy Times! I only wish that the æra of my begetting, as well as the mode and manner of it, had been a little alter'd,-or that it could have been put off with any convenience to my father or mother, for some twenty or five-and-twenty years longer, when a man in the literary world might have stood some chance.- 
But I forget my uncle Toby, whom all this while we have left knocking the ashes out of his tobacco pipe. 
His humour was of that particular species, which does honour to our atmosphere; 
[Page 146]
and I should have made no scruple of ranking him amongst one of the first-rate productions of it, had not there appear'd too many strong lines in it of a family-likeness, which shewed that he derived the singularity of his temper more from blood, than either wind or water, or any modifications or combinations of them whatever: And I have, therefore, oft times wondered, that my father, tho' I believe he had his reasons for it, upon his observing some tokens of excentricity in my course when I was a boy,-should never once endeavour to account for them in this way; for all the Shandy Family were of an original character throughout;-I mean the males,-the females had no character at all,-except, indeed, my great aunt Dinah, who, about sixty years ago, was married and got with child by the coachman, 
[Page 147]
for which my father, according to his hypothesis of Christian names, would often say, She might thank her godfathers and godmothers. 
It will seem very strange,-and I would as soon think of dropping a riddle in the reader's way, which is not my interest to do, as set him upon guessing how it could come to pass, that an event of this kind, so many years after it had happened, should be reserved for the interruption of the peace and unity, which otherwise so cordially subsisted, between my father and my uncle Toby. One would have thought, that the whole force of the misfortune should have spent and wasted itself in the family at first,-as is generally the case: -But nothing ever wrought with our family after the ordinary way. Possibly at the 
[Page 148]
very time this happened, it might have something else to afflict it; and as afflictions are sent down for our good, and that as this had never done the Shandy Family any good at all, it might lye waiting till apt times and circumstances should give it an opportunity to discharge its office. -Observe, I determine nothing upon this. -My way is ever to point out to the curious, different tracts of investigation, to come at the first springs of the events I tell;- not with a pedantic Fescue,-or in the decisive Manner of Tacitus, who outwits himself and his reader;-but with the officious humility of a heart devoted to the assistance merely of the inquisitive;- to them I write,-and by them I shall be read,-if any such reading as this could be supposed to hold out so long, to the very end of the world. 

[Page 149]
Why this cause of sorrow, therefore, was thus reserved for my father and uncle, is undetermined by me. But how and in what direction it exerted itself, so as to become the cause of dissatisfaction between them, after it began to operate, is what I am able to explain with great exactness, and is as follows: 
My uncle Toby Shandy, Madam, was a gentleman, who, with the virtues which usually constitute the character of a man of honour and rectitude,-possessed one in a very eminent degree, which is seldom or never put into the catalogue; and that was a most extream and unparallel'd modesty of nature;-tho' I correct the word nature, for this reason, that I may not prejudge a point which must shortly come to a hearing; and that is, Whether this modesty of his was natural 
[Page 150]
or acquir'd. -Which ever way my uncle Toby came by it, 'twas nevertheless modesty in the truest sense of it; and that is, Madam, not in regard to words, for he was so unhappy as to have very little choice in them,-but to things;-and this kind of modesty so possess'd him, and it arose to such a height in him, as almost to equal, if such a thing could be, even the modesty of a woman: That female nicety, Madam, and inward cleanliness of mind and fancy, in your sex, which makes you so much the awe of ours. 
You will imagine, Madam, that my uncle Toby had contracted all this from this very source;-that he had spent a great part of his time in converse with your sex; and that, from a thorough knowledge of you, and the force of imitation 
[Page 151]
which such fair examples render irresistable, -he had acquired this amiable turn of mind. 
I wish I could say so,-for unless it was with his sister-in-law, my father's wife and my mother,-my uncle Toby scarce exchanged three words with the sex in as many years;-no, he got it, Madam, by a blow. -A blow! -Yes, Madam, it was owing to a blow from a stone, broke off by a ball from the parapet of a horn-work at the siege of Namur, which struck full upon my uncle Toby's groin. -Which way could that effect it? The story of that, Madam, is long and interesting;-but it would be running my history all upon heaps to give it you here. -'Tis for an episode hereafter; and every circumstance relating to it in its proper place, shall be faithfully laid 
[Page 152]
before you: -'Till then, it is not in my power to give further light into this matter, or say more than what I have said already,-That my uncle Toby was a gentleman of unparallel'd modesty, which happening to be somewhat subtilized and rarified by the constant heat of a little family-pride,-they both so wrought together within him, that he could never bear to hear the affair of my aunt Dinah touch'd upon, but with the greatest emotion. -The least hint of it was enough to make the blood fly into his face;-but when my father enlarged upon the story in mixed companies, which the illustration of his hypothesis frequently obliged him to do,-the unfortunate blight of one of the fairest branches of the family, would set my uncle Toby's honour and modesty o'bleeding; and he would often take my father 
[Page 153]
aside, in the greatest concern imaginable, to expostulate and tell him, he would give him any thing in the world, only to let the story rest. 
My father, I believe, had the truest love and tenderness for my uncle Toby, that ever one brother bore towards another, and would have done any thing in nature, which one brother in reason could have desir'd of another, to have made my uncle Toby's heart easy in this, or any other point. But this lay out of his power. 
-My father, as I told you, was a philosopher in grain,-speculative,- systematical;-and my aunt Dinah's affair was a matter of as much consequence to him, as the retrogradation of the planets to Copernicus: -The backslidings of Venus in her orbit fortified the Copernican 
[Page 154]
system, call'd so after his name; and the backslidings of my aunt Dinah in her orbit, did the same service in establishing my father's system, which, I trust, will for ever hereafter be call'd the Shandean System, after his. 
In any other family dishonour, my father, I believe, had as nice a sense of shame as any man whatever;-and neither he, nor, I dare say, Copernicus, would have divulged the affair in either case, or have taken the least notice of it to the world, but for the obligations they owed, as they thought, to truth. - Amicus Plato, my father would say, construing the words to my uncle Toby, as he went along, Amicus Plato; that is, Dinah was my aunt;-sed magis amica veritas-but Truth is my sister. 

[Page 155]
This contrariety of humours betwixt my father and my uncle, was the source of many a fraternal squabble. The one could not bear to hear the tale of family disgrace recorded,-and the other would scarce ever let a day pass to an end without some hint at it. 
For God's sake, my uncle Toby would cry,-and for my sake, and for all our sakes, my dear brother Shandy,-do let this story of our aunt's and her ashes sleep in peace;-how can you,- how can you have so little feeling and compassion for the character of our family: -What is the character of a family to an hypothesis? my father would reply. -Nay, if you come to that- what is the life of a family: -The life of a family!-my uncle Toby would say, throwing himself back in his armchair, 
[Page 156]
and lifting up his hands, his eyes, and one leg. -Yes the life,-my father would say, maintaining his point. How many thousands of 'em are there every year that comes cast away, (in all civilized countries at least)-and consider'd as nothing but common air, in competition of an hypothesis. In my plain sense of things, my uncle Toby, would answer,-every such instance is downright Murder, let who will commit it. -There lies your mistake, my father would reply;-for, in Foro Scientiæ there is no such thing as Murder, -'tis only Death, brother. 
My uncle Toby would never offer to answer this by any other kind of argument, than that of whistling half a dozen bars of Lillabullero. -You must know 
[Page 157]
it was the usual channel thro' which his passions got vent, when any thing shocked or surprised him;-but especially when any thing, which he deem'd very absurd, was offered. 
As not one of our logical writers, nor any of the commentators upon them, that I remember, have thought proper to give a name to this particular species of argument,-I here take the liberty to do it myself, for two reasons. First, That, in order to prevent all confusion in disputes, it may stand as much distinguished for ever, from every other species of argument,-as the Argumentum ad Verecundiam, ex Absurdo, ex Fortiori, or any other argument whatsoever: -And, secondly, That it may be said by my children's children, when my head is laid to rest,-that their learned grand father's 
[Page 158]
head had been busied to as much purpose once, as other people's: -That he had invented a name,-and generously thrown it into the Treasury of the Ars Logica, for one of the most unanswerable arguments in the whole science. And if the end of disputation is more to silence than convince,-they may add, if they please, to one of the best arguments too. 
I do therefore, by these presents, strictly order and command, That it be known and distinguished by the name and title of the Argumentum Fistulatorium, and no other;-and that it rank hereafter with the Argumentum Baculinum, and the Argumentum ad Crumenam, and for ever hereafter be treated of in the same chapter. 

[Page 159]
As for the Argumentum Tripodium, which is never used but by the woman against the man;-and the Argumentum ad Rem, which, contrarywise, is made use of by the man only against the woman: -As these two are enough in conscience for one lecture;-and, moreover, as the one is the best answer to the other,-let them likewise be kept apart, and be treated of in a place by themselves. 
CHAP. XXII. 
The learned Bishop Hall, I mean the famous Dr. Joseph Hall, who was Bishop of Exeter in King James the First's reign, tells us in one of his Decads, at the end of his divine art of meditation, imprinted at London, in the year 1610, by John Beal, dwelling in Aldersgate-street, 
[Page 160]
""-and I really think it is so. 
And yet, on the other hand, when a thing is executed in a masterly kind of a fashion, which thing is not likely to be found out;-I think it is full as abominable, that a man should lose the honour of it, and go out of the world with the conceit of it rotting in his head. 
This is precisely my situation. 
For in this long digression which I was accidentally led into, as in all my digressions (one only excepted) there is a master-stroke of digressive skill, the merit of which has all along, I fear, been overlooked by my reader,-not for want of penetration in him,-but because 'tis 
[Page 161]
an excellence seldom looked for, or expected indeed, in a digression;-and it is this: That tho' my digressions are all fair, as you observe,-and that I fly off from what I am about, as far and as often too as any writer in Great-Britain; yet I constantly take care to order affairs so, that my main business does not stand still in my absence. 
I was just going, for example, to have given you the great out-lines of my uncle Toby's most whimsical character;-when my aunt Dinah and the coachman came a-cross us, and led us a vagary some millions of miles into the very heart of the planetary system: Notwithstanding all this you perceive that the drawing of my uncle Toby's character went on gently all the time;-not the great contours of it,-that was impossible,-but some familiar 
[Page 162]
strokes and faint designations of it, were here and there touch'd in, as we went along, so that you are much better acquainted with my uncle Toby now than you was before. 
By this contrivance the machinery of my work is of a species by itself; two contrary motions are introduced into it, and reconciled, which were thought to be at variance with each other. In a word, my work is digressive, and it is progressive too,-and at the same time. 
This, Sir, is a very different story from that of the earth's moving round her axis, in her diurnal rotation, with her progress in her elliptick orbit which brings about the year, and constitutes that variety and vicissitude of seasons we enjoy;-though I own it suggested the 
[Page 163]
thought,-as I believe the greatest of our boasted improvements and discoveries have come from some such trifling hints. 
Digressions, incontestably, are the sunshine; -they are the life, the soul of reading;-take them out of this book for instance,-you might as well take the book along with them;-one cold eternal winter would reign in every page of it; restore them to the writer;-he steps forth like a bridegroom,-bids All hail; brings in variety, and forbids the appetite to fail. 
All the dexterity is in the good cookery and management of them, so as to be not only for the advantage of the reader, but also of the author, whose distress, in this matter, is truely pitiable: 
[Page 164]
For, if he begins a digression,-from that moment, I observe, his whole work stands stock-still;-and if he goes on with his main work,-then there is an end of his digression. 
-This is vile work. -For which reason, from the beginning of this, you see, I have constructed the main work and the adventitious parts of it with such intersections, and have so complicated and involved the digressive and progessive movements, one wheel within another, that the whole machine, in general, has been kept a-going;-and, what's more, it shall be kept a-going these forty years, if it pleases the fountain of health to bless me so long with life and good spirits. 

[Page 165]

CHAP. XXIII. 
I Have a strong propensity in me to begin this chapter very nonsensically, and I will not balk my fancy. -Accordingly I set off thus. 
If the fixure of Momus's glass, in the human breast, according to the proposed emendation of that arch-critick, had taken place,-first, This foolish consequence would certainly have followed,- That the very wisest and the very gravest of us all, in one coin or other, must have paid window-money every day of our lives. 
And, secondly, That had the said glass been there set up, nothing more would have been wanting, in order to have taken 
[Page 166]
a man's character, but to have taken a chair and gone softly, as you would to a dioptrical bee-hive, and look'd in,- view'd the soul stark naked;-observ'd all her motions,-her machinations;- traced all her maggots from their first engendering to their crawling forth;- watched her loose in her frisks, her gambols, her capricios; and ofter some notice of her more solemn deportment, consequent upon such frisks, &c.-then taken your pen and ink and set down nothing but what you had seen, and could have sworn to: -But this is an advantage not to be had by the biographer in this planet,-in the planet Mercury (belike) it may be so, if not better still for him;-for there the intense heat of the country, which is proved by computators, from its vicinity to the sun, to be more than equal to that 
[Page 167]
of red hot iron,-must, I think, long ago have vitrified the bodies of the inhabitants, (as the efficient cause) to suit them for the climate (which is the final cause); so that, betwixt them both, all the tenements of their souls, from top to bottom, may be nothing else, for aught the soundest philosophy can shew to the contrary, but one fine transparent body of clear glass (bating the umbilical knot);- so, that till the inhabitants grow old and tolerably wrinkled, whereby the rays of light, in passing through them, become so monstrously refracted,-or return reflected from their surfaces in such transverse lines to the eye, that a man cannot be seen thro';-his soul might as well, unless, for more ceremony,-or the trifling advantage which the umbilical point gave her,-might, upon all 
[Page 168]
other accounts, I say, as well play the fool out o'doors as in her own house. 
But this, as I said above, is not the case of the inhabitants of this earth;- our minds shine not through the body, but are wrapt up here in a dark covering of uncrystalized flesh and blood; so that if we would come to the specifick characters of them, we must go some other way to work. 
Many, in good truth, are the ways which human wit has been forced to take to do this thing with exactness. 
Some, for instance, draw all their characters with wind instruments. -Virgil takes notice of that way in the affair of Dido and Æneas;-but it is as fallacious as the breath of fame;-and, moreover, 
[Page 169]
bespeaks a narrow genius. I am not ignorant that the Italians pretend to a mathematical exactness in their designations of one particular sort of character among them, from the forte or piano of a certain wind instrument they use,-which they say is infallible. -I dare not mention the name of the instrument in this place;-'tis sufficient we have it amongst us,-but never think of making a drawing by it;-this is ænigmatical, and intended to be so, at least, ad populum: - And therefore I beg, Madam, when you come here, that you read on as fast as you can, and never stop to make any inquiry about it. 
There are others again, who will draw a man's character from no other helps in the world, but merely from his evacuations; -but this often gives a very incorrect 
[Page 170]
out-line,-unless, indeed, you take a sketch of his repletions too; and by correcting one drawing from the other, compound one good figure out of them both. 
I should have no objection to this method, but that I think it must smell too strong of the lamp,-and be render'd still more operose, by forcing you to have an eye to the rest of his Non-Naturals. - Why the most natural actions of a man's life should be call'd his Non-Naturals,- is another question. 
There are others, fourthly, who disdain every one of these expedients;-not from any fertility of his own, but from the various ways of doing it, which they have borrowed from the honourable devices 
[Page 171]
which the Pentagraphic Brethren * 3 of the brush have shewn in taking copies. -These, you must know, are your great historians. 
One of these you will see drawing a full-length character against the light;- that's illiberal,-dishonest,-and hard upon the character of the man who sits. 
Others, to mend the matter, will make a drawing of you in the Camera;-that is most unfair of all,-because, there you are sure to be represented in some of your most ridiculous attitudes. 
To avoid all and every one of these errors, in giving you my uncle Toby's character, I am determin'd to draw it by 
[Page 172]
no mechanical help whatever;-nor shall my pencil be guided by any one wind instrument which ever was blown upon, either on this, or on the other side of the Alps;-nor will I consider either his repletions or his discharges,- or touch upon his Non-Naturals;-but, in a word, I will draw my uncle Toby's character from his Hobby-Horse. 
CHAP. XXIV. 
If I was not morally sure that the reader must be out of all patience for my uncle Toby's character,-I would here previously have convinced him, that there is no instrument so fit to draw such a thing with, as that which I have pitch'd upon. 

[Page 173]
A man and his Hobby-Horse, tho' I cannot say that they act and re-act exactly after the same manner in which the soul and body do upon each other: Yet doubtless there is a communication between them of some kind, and my opinion rather is, that there is something in it more of the manner of electrified bodies,-and that by means of the heated parts of the rider, which come immediately into contact with the back of the Hobby-Horse. -By long journies and much friction, it so happens that the body of the rider is at length fill'd as full of Hobby-Horsical matter as it can hold;-so that if you are able to give but a clear description of the nature of the one, you may form a pretty exact notion of the genius and character of the other. 

[Page 174]
Now the Hobby-Horse which my uncle Toby always rode upon, was, in my opinion, an Hobby-Horse well worth giving a description of, if it was only upon the score of his great singularity; for you might have travelled from York to Dover,-from Dover to Penzance in Cornwall, and from Penzance to York back again, and not have seen such another upon the road; or if you had seen such a one, whatever haste you had been in, you must infallibly have stopp'd to have taken a view of him. Indeed, the gait and figure of him was so strange, and so utterly unlike was he, from his head to his tail, to any one of the whole species, that it was now and then made a matter of dispute,-whether he was really a Hobby-Horse or no: But as the Philosopher would use no other argument to the sceptic, who disputed with him against 
[Page 175]
the reality of motion, save that of rising up upon his legs, and walking a-cross the room;-so would my uncle Toby use no other argument to prove his Hobby-Horse was a Hobby-Horse indeed, but by getting upon his back and riding him about;-leaving the world after that to determine the point as it thought fit. 
In good truth, my uncle Toby mounted him with so much pleasure, and he carried my uncle Toby so well,-that he troubled his head very little with what the world either said or thought about it. 
It is now high time, however, that I give you a description of him: -But to go on regularly, I only beg you will give me leave to acquaint you first, how my uncle Toby came by him. 

[Page 176]

CHAP. XXV. 
The wound in my uncle Toby's groin, which he received at the siege of Namur, rendering him unfit for the service, it was thought expedient he should return to England, in order, if possible, to be set to rights. 
He was four years totally confined,- part of it to his bed, and all of it to his room; and in the course of his cure, which was all that time in hand, suffer'd unspeakable miseries,-owing to a succession of exfoliations from the oss pubis, and the outward edge of that part of the coxendix called the oss illeum,-both which bones were dismally crush'd, as much by the irregularity of the stone, which I told you was broke off the parapet, 
[Page 177]
-as by its size,-(though it was pretty large) which inclined the surgeon all along to think, that the great injury which it had done my uncle Toby's groin, was more owing to the gravity of the stone itself, than to the projectile force of it,-which he would often tell him was a great happiness. 
My father at that time was just beginning business in London, and had taken a house;-and as the truest friendship and cordiality subsisted between the two brothers, -and that my father thought my uncle Toby could no where be so well nursed and taken care of as in his own house,-he assign'd him the very best apartment in it. -And what was a much more sincere mark of his affection still, he would never suffer a friend or an acquaintance to step into the house on any 
[Page 178]
occasion, but he would take him by the hand, and lead him up stairs to see his brother Toby, and chat an hour by his bed side. 
The history of a soldier's wound beguiles the pain of it;-my uncle's visiters at least thought so, and in their daily calls upon him, from the courtesy arising out of that belief, they would frequently turn the discourse to that subject,-and from that subject the discourse would generally roll on to the siege itself. 
These conversations were infinitely kind; and my uncle Toby received great relief from them, and would have received much more, but that they brought him into some unforeseen perplexities, which, for three months together, retarded his cure greatly; and if he had 
[Page 179]
not hit upon an expedient to extricate himself out of them, I verily believe they would have laid him in his grave. 
What these perplexities of my uncle Toby were,-'tis impossible for you to guess;-if you could,-I should blush; not as a relation,-not as a man,-nor even as a woman,-but I should blush as an author; inasmuch as I set no small store by myself upon this very account, that my reader has never yet been able to guess at any thing. And in this, Sir, I am of so nice and singular a humour, that if I thought you was able to form the least judgment or probable conjecture to yourself, of what was to come in the next page,-I would tear it out of my book. 

END of the First Volume.

Vol. 2 

[Page ]

Title Page 
THE LIFE AND OPINIONS OF TRISTRAM SHANDY, Gentleman. 

??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? 
VOL. II. The Second Edition.
LONDON: Printed for R. and J. Dodsley in Pall-Mall. M.DCC.LX.



[Page ]

[Blank page]


[Page 1]
THE LIFE and OPINIONS OF TRISTRAM SHANDY, Gent.
CHAP. I. 
I Have begun a new book, on purpose that I might have room enough to explain the nature of the perplexities in which my uncle Toby was involved, from the many discourses and interrogations about the siege of Namur, where he received his wound. 
I must remind the reader, in case he has read the history of King William's 
[Page 2]
wars,-but if he has not,-I then inform him, that one of the most memorable attacks in that siege, was that which was made by the English and Dutch upon the point of the advanced counterscarp, before the gate of St. Nicolas, which inclosed the great sluice or water-stop, where the English were terribly exposed to the shot of the counter-guard and demi-bastion of St. Roch: The issue of which hot dispute, in three words, was this; That the Dutch lodged themselves upon the counter-guard,-and that the English made themselves masters of the covered way before St. Nicolas's gate, notwithstanding the gallantry of the French officers, who exposed themselves upon the glacis sword in hand. 
As this was the principal attack of which my uncle Toby was an eye-witness 
[Page 3]
at Namur,-the army of the besiegers being cut off, by the confluence of the Maes and Sambre, from seeing much of each other's operations,-my uncle Toby was generally more eloquent and particular in his account of it; and the many perplexities he was in, arose out of the almost insurmountable difficulties he found in telling his story intelligibly, and giving such clear ideas of the differences and distinctions between the scarp and counterscarp,-the glacis and covered way,-the half-moon and ravelin, -as to make his company fully comprehend where and what he was about. 
Writers themselves are too apt to confound these terms;-so that you will the less wonder, if in his endeavours to explain them, and in opposition to many 
[Page 4]
misconceptions, that my uncle Toby did oft times puzzle his visiters, and sometimes himself too. 
To speak the truth, unless the company my father led up stairs were tolerably clear-headed, or my uncle Toby was in one of his best explanatory moods, 'twas a difficult thing, do what he could, to keep the discourse free from obscurity. 
What rendered the account of this affair the more intricate to my uncle Toby, was this,-that in the attack of the counterscarp before the gate of St. Nicolas, extending itself from the bank of the Maes, quite up to the great water-stop; -the ground was cut and cross-cut with such a multitude of dykes, drains, rivulets, and sluices, on all sides,-and he would get so sadly bewilder'd and set 
[Page 5]
fast amongst them, that frequently he could neither get backwards or forwards to save his life; and was oft times obliged to give up the attack upon that very account only. 
These perplexing rebuffs gave my uncle Toby Shandy more perturbations than you would imagine; and as my father's kindness to him was continually dragging up fresh friends and fresh inquirers, -he had but a very uneasy task of it. 
No doubt my uncle Toby had great command of himself,-and could guard appearances, I believe, as well as most men;-yet any one may imagine, that when he could not retreat out of the ravelin without getting into the half-moon, or get out of the covered way without 
[Page 6]
falling down the counterscarp, nor cross the dyke without danger of slipping into the ditch, but that he must have fretted and fumed inwardly: -He did so-and these little and hourly vexations, which may seem trifling and of no account to the man who has not read Hippocrates, yet, whoever has read Hippocrates, or Dr. James Mackenzie, and has considered well the effects which the passions and affections of the mind have upon the digestion, -(Why not of a wound as well as of a dinner?)-may easily conceive what sharp paroxisms and exacerbations of his wound my uncle Toby must have undergone upon that score only. 
-My uncle Toby could not philosophize upon it;-'twas enough he felt it was so,-and having sustained the pain and sorrows of it for three months together, 
[Page 7]
he was resolved some way or other to extricate himself. 
He was one morning lying upon his back in his bed, the anguish and nature of the wound upon his groin suffering him to lye in no other position, when a thought came into his head, that if he could purchase such a thing, and have it pasted down upon a board, as a large map of the fortifications of the town and citadel of Namur, with its environs, it might be a means of giving him ease. - I take notice of his desire to have the environs along with the town and citadel, for this reason,-because my uncle Toby's wound was got in one of the traverses, about thirty toises from the returning angle of the trench, opposite to the salient angle of the demi-bastion of St. Roch;-so that he was pretty confident 
[Page 8]
he could stick a pin upon the identical spot of ground where he was standing in when the stone struck him. 
All this succeeded to his wishes, and not only freed him from a world of sad explanations, but, in the end, it prov'd the happy means, as you will read, of procuring my uncle Toby his Hobby-Horse. 
CHAP. II. 
There is nothing so foolish, when you are at the expence of making an entertainment of this kind, as to order things so badly, as to let your criticks and gentry of refined taste run it down: Nor is there any thing so likely 
[Page 9]
to make them do it, as that of leaving them out of the party, or, what is full as offensive, of bestowing your attention upon the rest of your guests in so particular a way, as if there was no such thing as a critick (by occupation) at table. 
-I guard against both; for, in the first place, I have left half a dozen places purposely open for them;-and, in the next place, I pay them all court,- Gentlemen, I kiss your hands,-I protest no company could give me half the pleasure,-by my soul I am glad to see you,-I beg only you will make no strangers of yourselves, but sit down without any ceremony, and fall on heartily. 

[Page 10]
I said I had left six places, and I was upon the point of carrying my complaisaince so far, as to have left a seventh open for them,-and in this very spot I stand on;-but being told by a critick, (tho' not by occupation,-but by nature) that I had acquitted myself well enough, I shall fill it up directly, hoping, in the mean time, that I shall be able to make a great deal of more room next year. 
-How, in the name of wonder! could your uncle Toby, who, it seems, was a military man, and whom you have represented as no fool,-be at the same time such a confused, pudding-headed, muddle-headed fellow, as-Go look. 
So, Sir Critick, I could have replied; but I scorn it. -'Tis language unurbane, -and only befitting the man 
[Page 11]
who cannot give clear and satisfactory accounts of things, or dive deep enough into the first causes of human ignorance and confusion. It is moreover the reply valiant,-and therefore I reject it; for tho' it might have suited my uncle Toby's character as a soldier excellently well,-and had he not accustomed himself, in such attacks, to whistle the Lillabullero, -as he wanted no courage, 'tis the very answer he would have given; yet it would by no means have done for me. You see as plain as can be, that I write as a man of erudition;-that even my similies, my allusions, my illustrations, my metaphors, are erudite,-and that I must sustain my character properly, and contrast it properly too,-else what would become of me? Why, Sir, I should be undone;-at this very moment that I am going here to-fill up one 
[Page 12]
place against a critick,-I should have made an opening for a couple. 
-Therefore I answer thus: 
Pray, Sir, in all the reading which you have ever read, did you ever read such a book as Locke's Essay upon the Human Understanding? -Don't answer me rashly,-because many, I know, quote the book, who have not read it,-and many have read it who understand it not: -If either of these is your case, as I write to instruct, I will tell you in three words what the book is. -It is a history. -A history! of who? what? where? when? Don't hurry yourself. -It is a history-book, Sir, (which may possibly recommend it to the world) of what passes in a man's own mind; and if you will say so much of the book, and no more, believe 
[Page 13]
me, you will cut no contemptible figure in a metaphysic circle. 
But this by the way. 
Now if you will venture to go along with me, and look down into the bottom of this matter, it will be found that the cause of obscurity and confusion, in the mind of man, is threefold. 
Dull organs, dear Sir, in the first place. Secondly, slight and transient impressions made by objects when the said organs are not dull. And, thirdly, a memory like unto a sieve, not able to retain what it has received. -Call down Dolly your chamber-maid, and I will give you my cap and bell along with it, if I make not this matter so plain that Dolly herself shall understand it as well as Malbranch. - 
[Page 14]
When Dolly has indited her epistle to Robin, and has thrust her arm into the bottom of her pocket hanging by her right-side;-take that opportunity to recollect that the organs and faculties of perception, can, by nothing in this world, be so aptly typified and explained as by that one thing which Dolly's hand is in search of. -Your organs are not so dull that I should inform you,-'tis an inch, Sir, of red seal-wax. 
When this is melted and dropp'd upon the letter, if Dolly fumbles too long for her thimble, till the wax is over harden'd, it will not receive the mark of her thimble from the usual impulse which was wont to imprint it. Very well: If Dolly's wax, for want of better, is bees-wax, or of a temper too soft,-tho' it may receive, -it will not hold the impression, 
[Page 15]
how hard soever Dolly thrusts against it; and last of all, supposing the wax good, and eke the thimble, but applied thereto in careless haste, as her Mistress rings the bell;-in any one of these three cases, the print, left by the thimble, will be as unlike the prototype as a brass-jack. 
Now you must understand that not one of these was the true cause of the confusion in my uncle Toby's discourse; and it is for that very reason I enlarge upon them so long, after the manner of great physiologists,-to shew the world what it did not arise from. 
What it did arise from, I have hinted above, and a fertile source of obscurity it is,-and ever will be,-and that is the unsteady uses of words which have perplexed 
[Page 16]
the clearest and most exalted understandings. 
It is ten to one (at Arthur's) whether you have ever read the literary histories of past ages;-if you have,-what terrible battles, 'yclept logomachies, have they occasioned and perpetuated with so much gall and ink-shed,-that a good-natured man cannot read the accounts of them without tears in his eyes. 
Gentle critick! when thou hast weigh'd all this, and consider'd within thyself how much of thy own knowledge, discourse and conversation has been pestered and disordered, at one time or other, by this, and this only: -What a pudder and racket in Councils about ????? and ?????????; and in the Schools of the learned about power and about spirit;-about 
[Page 17]
essences, and about quintessences;- about substances, and about space- what confusion in greater Theatres from words of little meaning, and as indeterminate a sense;-when thou considers this, thou wilt not wonder at my uncle Toby's perplexities,-thou wilt drop a tear of pity upon his scarp and his counterscarp; -his glacis and his covered-way; -his ravelin and his half-moon: 'Twas not by ideas,-by heaven! his life was put in jeopardy by words. 
CHAP. III. 
When my uncle Toby got his map of Namur to his mind, he began immediately to apply himself, and with the utmost diligence, to the study of it; for nothing being of more importance 
[Page 18]
to him than his recovery, and his recovery depending, as you have read, upon the passions and affections of his mind, it behoved him to take the nicest care to make himself so far master of his subject, as to be able to talk upon it without emotion. 
In a fortnight's close and painful application, which, by the bye, did my uncle Toby's wound, upon his groin, no good,-he was enabled, by the help of some marginal documents at the feet of the elephant, together with Gobesius's military architecture and pyroballogy, translated from the Flemish, to form his discourse with passable perspicuity; and before he was two full months gone,- he was right eloquent upon it, and could make not only the attack of the advanced 
[Page 19]
counterscarp with great order;- but having, by that time, gone much deeper into the art, than what his first motive made necessary,-my uncle Toby was able to cross the Maes and Sambre; make diversions as far as Vauban's line, the abbey of Salsines, &c. and give his visiters as distinct a history of each of their attacks, as of that of the gate of St. Nicolas, where he had the honour to receive his wound. 
But the desire of knowledge, like the thirst of riches, increases ever with the acquisition of it. The more my uncle Toby pored over his map, the more he took a liking to it;-by the same process and electrical assimilation, as I told you, thro' which I ween the souls of connoisseurs themselves, by long friction and incumbition, have the happiness, at length, to 
[Page 20]
get all be-virtu'd,-be-pictur'd,-be-butterflied, and be-fiddled. 
The more my uncle Toby drank of this sweet fountain of science, the greater was the heat and impatience of his thirst, so that, before the first year of his confinement had well gone round, there was scarce a fortified town in Italy or Flanders, of which, by one means or other, he had not procured a plan, reading over as he got them, and carefully collating therewith the histories of their sieges, their demolitions, their improvements, and new works, all which he would read with that intense application and delight, that he would forget himself, his wound, his confinement, his dinner. 
In the second year my uncle Toby purchased Ramelli and Cataneo, translated 
[Page 21]
from the Italian;-likewise Stevinus, Marolis, the Chevalier de Ville, Lorini, Coehorn, Sheeter, the Count de Pagan, the Marshal Vauban, Mons. Blondel, with almost as many more books of military architecture, as Don Quixote was found to have of chivalry, when the curate and barber invaded his library. 
Towards the beginning of the third year, which was in August, ninety-nine, my uncle Toby found it necessary to understand a little of projectiles: -And having judged it best to draw his knowledge from the fountain-head, he began with N. Tartaglia, who it seems was the first man who detected the imposition of a canon-ball's doing all that mischief under the notion of a right line. -This N. Tartaglia proved to my uncle Toby to be an impossible thing. 

[Page 22]
---Endless is the Search of Truth! 
No sooner was my uncle Toby satisfied which road the cannon-ball did not go, but he was insensibly led on, and resolved in his mind to enquire and find out which road the ball did go: For which purpose he was obliged to set off afresh with old Maltus, and studied him devoutly. -He proceeded next to Gallileo and Torricellius, wherein, by certain geometrical rules, infallibly laid down, he found the precise path to be a Parabola,-or else an Hyperbola,-and that the parameter, or latus rectum, of the conic section of the said path was to the quantity and amplitude in a direct ratio, as the whole line to the sine of double the angle of incidence, form'd by the breech upon an horizontal plane;-and that the semi-parameter, 
[Page 23]
--stop! my dear uncle Toby,-stop!-go not one foot farther into this thorny and bewilder'd track,- intricate are the steps! intricate are the mases of this labyrinth! intricate are the troubles which the pursuit of this bewitching phantom, Knowledge, will bring upon thee. -O my uncle! fly-fly- fly from it as from a serpent. -Is it fit, good-natur'd man! thou should'st sit up, with the wound upon thy groin, whole nights baking thy blood with hectic watchings? -Alas! 'twill exasperate thy symptoms,-check thy perspirations,- evaporate thy spirits,-waste thy animal strength,-dry up thy radical moisture, -bring thee into a costive habit of body, impair thy health,-and hasten all the infirmities of thy old age. -O my uncle! my uncle Toby! 

[Page 24]

CHAP. IV. 
I Would not give a groat for that man's knowledge in pen-craft, who does not understand this,-That the best plain narrative in the world, tack'd very close to the last spirited apostrophe to my uncle Toby,-would have felt both cold and vapid upon the reader's palate;-therefore I forthwith put an end to the chapter, -though I was in the middle of my story. 
--Writers of my stamp have one principle in common with painters. - Where an exact copying makes our pictures less striking, we choose the less evil; deeming it even more pardonable to trespass against truth, than beauty. - This is to be understood cum grano salis; 
[Page 25]
but be it as it will,-as the parallel is made more for the sake of letting the apostrophe cool, than any thing else,- 'tis not very material whether upon any other score the reader approves of it or not. 
In the latter end of the third year, my uncle Toby perceiving that the parameter and semi-parameter of the conic section angred his wound, he left off the study of projectiles in a kind of a huff, and betook himself to the practical part of fortification only; the pleasure of which, like a spring held back, returned upon him with redoubled force. 
It was in this year that my uncle began to break in upon the daily regularity of a clean shirt--to dismiss his barber unshaven,-and to allow his surgeon 
[Page 26]
scarce time sufficient to dress his wound, concerning himself so little about it, as not to ask him once in seven times dressing how it went on: When, lo!-all of a sudden, for the change was as quick as lightening, he began to sigh heavily for his recovery,-complain'd to my father, grew impatient with the surgeon;-and one morning as he heard his foot coming up stairs, he shut up his books, and thrust aside his instruments, in order to expostulate with him upon the protraction of his cure, which, he told him, might surely have been accomplished at least by that time: -He dwelt long upon the miseries he had undergone, and the sorrows of his four years melancholy imprisonment;-adding, that had it not been for the kind looks, and fraternal cheerings of the best of brothers,-he had long since sunk under his misfortunes. 
[Page 27]
-My father was by: My uncle Toby's eloquence brought tears into his eyes;-'twas unexpected. -My uncle Toby, by nature, was not eloquent;- it had the greater effect. -The surgeon was confounded;-not that there wanted grounds for such, or greater, marks of impatience,-but 'twas unexpected too; in the four years he had attended him, he had never seen any thing like it in my uncle Toby's carriage;-he had never once dropp'd one fretful or discontented word;-he had been all patience,-all submission. 
-We lose the right of complaining sometimes by forbearing it;--but we oftner treble the force: -The surgeon was astonished;-but much more so, when he heard my uncle Toby go on, and peremptorily insist upon his healing up 
[Page 28]
the wound directly,-or sending for Monsieur Ronjat, the King's Serjeant-Surgeon, to do it for him. 
The desire of life and health is implanted in man's nature;-the love of liberty and enlargement is a sister-passion to it: These my uncle Toby had in common with his species;-and either of them had been sufficient to account for his earnest desire to get well and out of doors;-but I have told you before that nothing wrought with our family after the common way;-and from the time and manner in which this eager desire shew'd itself in the present case, the penetrating reader will suspect there was some other cause or crotchet for it in my uncle Toby's head: -There was so, and 'tis the subject of the next chapter to set forth what that cause and crotchet was. 
[Page 29]
I own, when that's done, 'twill be time to return back to the parlour fire-side, where we left my uncle Toby in the middle of his sentence. 
CHAP. V. 
When a man gives himself up to the government of a ruling passion, --or, in other words, when his Hobby-Horse grows head-strong,- farewell cool reason and fair discretion! 
My uncle Toby's wound was near well, and as soon as the surgeon recovered his surprize, and could get leave to say as much-he told him, 'twas just beginning to incarnate; and that if no fresh exfoliation happen'd, which there was no signs of,-it would be dried up in five or six 
[Page 30]
weeks. The sound of as many olympiads twelve hours before, would have convey'd an idea of shorter duration to my uncle Toby's mind. -The succession of his ideas was now rapid,-he broil'd with impatience to put his design in execution;-and so, without consulting further with any soul living,--which, by the bye, I think is right, when you are predetermined to take no one soul's advice,-he privately ordered Trim, his man, to pack up a bundle of lint and dressings, and hire a chariot and four to be at the door exactly by twelve o'clock that day, when he knew my father would be upon 'Change. -So leaving a bank-note upon the table for the surgeon's care of him, and a letter of tender thanks for his brother's,-he pack'd up his maps, his books of fortification, his instruments, &c.-and, by the help of a 
[Page 31]
crutch on one side, and Trim on the other,-my uncle Toby embark'd for Shandy-Hall. 
The reason, or rather the rise, of this sudden demigration, was as follows: 
The table in my uncle Toby's room, and at which, the night before this change happened, he was sitting with his maps, &c. about him,-being somewhat of the smallest, for that infinity of great and small instruments of knowledge which usually lay crouded upon it;-he had the accident, in reaching over for his tobacco-box, to throw down his compasses, and in stooping to take the compasses up, with his sleeve he threw down his case of instruments and snuffers;- and as the dice took a run against him, in his endeavouring to catch the snuffers 
[Page 32]
in falling,-he thrust Monsieur Blondel off the table, and Count de Pagan o'top of him. 
'Twas to no purpose for a man, lame as my uncle Toby was, to think of redressing all these evils by himself,-he rung his bell for his man Trim;-Trim! quoth my uncle Toby, pri'thee see what confusion I have here been making. -I must have some better contrivance, Trim. - Can'st not thou take my rule and measure the length and breadth of this table, and then go and bespeak me one as big again? -Yes, an' please your Honour, replied Trim, making a bow;-but I hope your Honour will be soon well enough to get down to your country seat, where,-as your Honour takes so much pleasure in fortification, we could manage this matter to a T. 

[Page 33]
I must here inform you, that this servant of my uncle Toby's, who went by the name of Trim, had been a Corporal in my uncle's own company,-his real name was James Butler,-but having got the nick-name of Trim in the regiment, my uncle Toby, unless when he happened to be very angry with him, would never call him by any other name. 
The poor fellow had been disabled for the service, by a wound on his left knee by a musket-bullet, at the battle of Landen, which was two years before the affair of Namur;-and as the fellow was well beloved in the regiment, and a handy fellow into the bargain, my uncle Toby took him for his servant, and of excellent use was he, attending my uncle Toby in the camp and in his quarters as valet, groom, barber, cook, sempster, 
[Page 34]
and nurse; and indeed, from first to last, waited upon him and served him with great fidelity and affection. 
My uncle Toby loved the man in return, and what attached him more to him still, was the similitude of their knowledge: -For Corporal Trim, (for so, for the future, I shall call him) by four years occasional attention to his Master's discourse upon fortified towns, and the advantage of prying and peeping continually into his Master's plans, &c. exclusive and besides what he gained Hobby-Horsically, as a body-servant, Non Hobby-Horsical per se;-had become no mean proficient in the science; and was thought, by the cook and chamber-maid, to know as much of the nature of strong-holds as my uncle Toby himself. 

[Page 35]
I have but one more stroke to give to finish Corporal Trim's character,-and it is the only dark line in it. -The fellow lov'd to advise,-or rather to hear himself talk; his carriage, however, was so perfectly respectful, 'twas easy to keep him silent when you had him so; but set his tongue a-going,-you had no hold of him;-he was voluble;-the eternal interlardings of your Honour, with the respectfulness of Corporal Trim's manner, interceding so strong in behalf of his elocution,-that tho' you might have been incommoded,-you could not well be angry. My uncle Toby was seldom either the one or the other with him,- or, at least, this fault, in Trim, broke no squares with 'em. My uncle Toby, as I said, loved the man;-and besides, as he ever looked upon a faithful servant,- but as an humble friend,-he could not 
[Page 36]
bear to stop his mouth. -Such was Corporal Trim. 
If I durst presume, continued Trim, to give your Honour my advice, and speak my opinion in this matter. -Thou art welcome, Trim, quoth my uncle Toby,-speak,-speak what thou thinkest upon the subject, man, without fear. Why then, replied Trim, (not hanging his ears and scratching his head like a country lout, but) stroking his hair back from his forehead, and standing erect as before his division. -I think, quoth Trim, advancing his left, which was his lame leg, a little forwards,-and pointing with his right hand open towards a map of Dunkirk, which was pinn'd against the hangings,-I think, quoth Corporal Trim, with humble submission to your Honour's better judgment,-that these 
[Page 37]
ravelins, bastions, curtins, and horn-works make but a poor, contemptible, fiddle faddle piece of work of it here upon paper, compared to what your Honour and I could make of it, were we in the country by ourselves, and had but a rood, or a rood and a half of ground to do what we pleased with: As summer is coming on, continued Trim, your Honour might sit out of doors, and give me the nography-(call it ichnography, quoth my uncle)-of the town or citadel, your Honour was pleased to sit down before,-and I will be shot by your Honour upon the glacis of it, if I did not fortify it to your Honour's mind. -I dare say thou would'st, Trim, quoth my uncle. -For if your Honour, continued the Corporal, could but mark me the polygon, with its exact lines and angles- That I could do very well, quoth my 
[Page 38]
uncle. -I would begin with the fossé, and if your Honour could tell me the proper depth and breadth,-I can to a hair's breadth, Trim, replied my uncle,- I would throw out the earth upon this hand towards the town for the scarp,- and on that hand towards the campaign for the counterscarp. -Very right, Trim, quoth my uncle Toby. -And when I had sloped them to your mind,-an' please your Honour, I would face the glacis, as the finest fortifications are done in Flanders, with sods,-and as your Honour knows they should be,-and I would make the walls and parapets with sods too;-The best engineers call them gazons, Trim, said my uncle Toby;-Whether they are gazons or sods, is not much matter, replied Trim, your Honour knows they are ten times beyond a facing either of brick or stone;-I know they are, 
[Page 39]
Trim, in some respects,-quoth my uncle Toby, nodding his head;-for a cannon-ball enters into the gazon right onwards, without bringing any rubbish down with it, which might fill the fossé, (as was the case at St. Nicolas's Gate) and facilitate the passage over it. 
Your Honour understands these matters, replied Corporal Trim, better than any officer in his Majesty's service;- but would your Honour please to let the bespeaking of the table alone, and let us but go into the country, I would work under your Honour's directions like a horse, and make fortifications for you something like a tansy, with all their batteries, saps, ditches, and palisadoes, that it should be worth all the world's riding twenty miles to go and see it. 

[Page 40]
My uncle Toby blushed as red as scarlet as Trim went on;-but it was not a blush of guilt,-of modesty,-or of anger; -it was a blush of joy;-he was fired with Corporal Trim's project and description. -Trim! said my uncle Toby, thou hast said enough. -We might begin the campaign, continued Trim, on the very day that his Majesty and the Allies take the field, and demolish them town by town as fast as-Trim, quoth my uncle Toby, say no more. -Your Honour, continued Trim, might sit in your arm-chair (pointing to it) this fine weather, giving me your orders, and I would-Say no more, Trim, quoth my uncle Toby. -Besides, your Honour would get not only pleasure and good pastime,-but good air, and good exercise, and good health,-and your Honour's wound would be well in a month. 
[Page 41]
Thou hast said enough, Trim,-quoth my uncle Toby, (putting his hand into his breeches-pocket)-I like thy project mightily;-And if your Honour pleases, I'll, this moment, go and buy a pioneer's spade to take down with us, and I'll bespeak a shovel and a pick-ax, and a couple of-Say no more, Trim, quoth my uncle Toby, leaping up upon one leg, quite overcome with rapture,-and thrusting a guinea into Trim's hand,- Trim, said my uncle Toby, say no more; -but go down, Trim, this moment, my lad, and bring up my supper this instant. 
Trim ran down and brought up his Master's supper,-to no purpose: -- Trim's plan of operation ran so in my uncle Toby's head, he could not taste it. -Trim, quoth my uncle Toby, get me 
[Page 42]
to-bed;-'twas all one. -Corporal Trim's description had fired his imagination,- my uncle Toby could not shut his eyes. - The more he consider'd it, the more bewitching the scene appeared to him;- so that, two full hours before day-light, he had come to a final determination, and had concerted the whole plan of his and Corporal Trim's decampment. 
My uncle Toby had a little neat country-house of his own, in the village where my father's estate lay at Shandy, which had been left him by an old uncle, with a small estate of about one hundred pounds a year. Behind this house, and contiguous to it, was a kitchen-garden of about half an acre;-and at the bottom of the garden, and cut off from it by a tall yew hedge, was a bowling-green, containing just about as much 
[Page 43]
ground as Corporal Trim wished for;- so that as Trim uttered the words, ""-this identical bowling-green instantly presented itself, and became curiously painted, all at once, upon the retina of my uncle Toby's fancy; -which was the physical cause of making him change colour, or at least, of heightening his blush to that immoderate degree I spoke of. 
Never did lover post down to a belov'd mistress with more heat and expectation, than my uncle Toby did, to enjoy this self-same thing in private;-I say in private; -for it was sheltered from the house, as I told you, by a tall yew hedge, and was covered on the other three sides, from mortal sight, by rough holly and thickset flowering shrubs;-so that the 
[Page 44]
idea of not being seen, did not a little contribute to the idea of pleasure preconceived in my uncle Toby's mind. - Vain thought! however thick it was planted about,-or private soever it might seem,-to think, dear uncle Toby, of enjoying a thing which took up a whole rood and a half of ground,-and not have it known! 
How my uncle Toby and Corporal Trim managed this matter,-with the history of their campaigns, which were no way barren of events,-may make no uninteresting under-plot in the epitasis and working up of this drama. -At present the scene must drop,-and change for the parlour fire-side. 

[Page 45]

CHAP. VI. 
-What can they be doing, brother? said my father. -I think, replied my uncle Toby,-taking, as I told you, his pipe from his mouth, and striking the ashes out of it as he began his sentence;-I think, replied he,-it would not be amiss, brother, if we rung the bell. 
Pray, what's all that racket over our heads, Obadiah?-quoth my father;- my brother and I can scarce hear ourselves speak. 
Sir, answer'd Obadiah, making a bow towards his left-shoulder,-my Mistress is taken very badly;-and where's Susannah running down the garden there, 
[Page 46]
as if they were going to ravish her? - Sir, she is running the shortest cut into the town, replied Obadiah, to fetch the old midwife. -Then saddle a horse, quoth my father, and do you go directly for Dr. Slop, the man-midwife, with all our services,-and let him know your Mistress is fallen into labour,-and that I desire he will return with you with all speed. 
It is very strange, says my father, addressing himself to my uncle Toby, as Obadiah shut the door,-as there is so expert an operator as Dr. Slop so near- that my wife should persist to the very last in this obstinate humour of hers, in trusting the life of my child, who has had one misfortune already, to the ignorance of an old woman;-and not only the life of my child, brother,-but her own 
[Page 47]
life, and with it the lives of all the children I might, peradventure, have begot out of her hereafter. 
Mayhap, brother, replied my uncle Toby, my sister does it to save the expence: -A pudding's end,-replied my father,-the doctor must be paid the same for inaction as action,-if not better, -to keep him in temper. 
-Then it can be out of nothing in the whole world, quoth my uncle Toby, in the simplicity of his heart, -but Modesty: -My sister, I dare say, added he, does not care to let a man come so near her * * * *. I will not say whether my uncle Toby had completed the sentence or not;---'tis for his advantage to suppose he had,-- as, I think, he could have added no 
[Page 48]
One Word which would have improved it. 
If, on the contrary, my uncle Toby had not fully arrived at his period's end,- then the world stands indebted to the sudden snapping of my father's tobacco-pipe, for one of the neatest examples of that ornamental figure in oratory, which Rhetoricians stile the Aposiopesis. -Just heaven! how does the Poco piu and the Poco meno of the Italian artists-the insensible MORE or LESS, determine the precise line of beauty in the sentence, as well as in the statue! How do the slight touches of the chisel, the pencil, the pen, the fiddle-stick, et cætera,-give the true swell, which give the true pleasure! -O my countrymen!-be nice;-be cautious of your language;-and never, O! never let it be forgotten upon what 
[Page 49]
small particles your eloquence and your fame depend. 
-"" quoth my uncle Toby, "" Make this dash,-'tis an Aposiopesis. -Take the dash away, and write Backside,-- 'tis Bawdy. -Scratch Backside out, and put Cover'd-way in,-'tis a Metaphor;- and, I dare say, as fortification ran so much in my uncle Toby's head, that if he had been left to have added one word to the sentence,-that word was it. 
But whether that was the case or not the case;-or whether the snapping of my father's tobacco-pipe so critically, happened thro' accident or anger,-will be seen in due time. 

[Page 50]

CHAP. VII. 
Tho' my father was a good natural philosopher,-yet he was something of a moral philosopher too; for which reason, when his tobacco-pipe snapp'd short in the middle,-he had nothing to do,-as such,-but to have taken hold of the two pieces, and thrown them gently upon the back of the fire. - He did no such thing;-he threw them with all the violence in the world;-and, to give the action still more emphasis,- he started up upon both his legs to do it. 
This look'd something like heat;- and the manner of his reply to what my uncle Toby was saying, prov'd it was so. 

[Page 51]
-"" quoth my father, repeating my uncle Toby's words) "" -By heaven, brother Toby! you would try the patience of a Job;-and I think I have the plagues of one already, without it. --Why? -Where? -Wherein? -- Wherefore? -Upon what account, replied my uncle Toby, in the utmost astonishment. --To think, said my father, of a man living to your age, brother, and knowing so little about women! - I know nothing at all about them,-replied my uncle Toby; and I think, continued he, that the shock I received the year after the demolition of Dunkirk, in my affair with widow Wadman;-which shock you know I should not have received, but from my total ignorance of the sex,-has given me just cause to say, That I neither know, nor do pretend to 
[Page 52]
know any think about 'em, or their concerns either. --Methinks, brother, replied my father, you might, at least, know so much as the right end of a woman from the wrong. 
It is said in Aristotle's Master-Piece, "" 
My uncle Toby, I suppose, thought of neither,-for he look'd horizontally. - Right end,-quoth my uncle Toby, muttering the two words low to himself, and fixing his two eyes insensibly as he muttered them, upon a small crevice, form'd by a bad joint in the chimney-piece. - Right end of a woman! -I declare, 
[Page 53]
quoth my uncle, I know no more which it is, than the man in the moon;-and if I was to think, continued my uncle Toby, (keeping his eye still fix'd upon the bad joint) this month together, I am sure I should not be able to find it out. 
Then, brother Toby, replied my father, I will tell you. 
Every thing in this world, continued my father (filling a fresh pipe)-every thing in this earthly world, my dear brother Toby, has two handles. -Not always, quoth my uncle Toby. -At least, replied my father, every one has two hands,- which comes to the same thing. -Now, if a man was to sit down coolly, and consider within himself the make, the shape, the construction, com-at-ability, and convenience of all the parts which constitute 
[Page 54]
the whole of that animal, call'd Woman, and compare them analogically-I never understood rightly the meaning of that word,-quoth my uncle Toby. - Analogy, replied my father, is the certain relation and agreement, which different -Here a devil of a rap at the door snapp'd my father's definition (like his tobacco-pipe) in two,-and, at the same time crushed the head of as notable and curious a dissertation as ever was engendered in the womb of speculation;-it was some months before my father could get an opportunity to be safely deliver'd of it: -And, at this hour, it is a thing full as problematical as the subject of the dissertation itself,-(considering the confusion and distresses of our domestic misadventures, which are now coming thick one upon the back of another) whether 
[Page 55]
I shall be able to find a place for it in the third volume or not. 
CHAP. VIII. 
It is about an hour and a half's tolerable good reading since my uncle Toby rung the bell, when Obadiah was order'd to saddle a horse, and go for Dr. Slop the man-midwife;-so that no one can say, with reason, that I have not allowed Obadiah time enough, poetically speaking, and considering the emergency too, both to go and come;--tho', morally and truly speaking, the man, perhaps, has scarce had time to get on his boots. 
If the hypercritic will go upon this; and is resolved after all to take a pendulum, 
[Page 56]
and measure the true distance betwixt the ringing of the bell, and the rap at the door;-and, after finding it to be no more than two minutes, thirteen seconds, and three fifths,-should take upon him to insult over me for such a breach in the unity, or rather probability, of time;-I would remind him, that the idea of duration and of its simple modes, is got merely from the train and succession of our ideas,-and is the true scholastic pendulum,--and by which, as a scholar, I will be tried in this matter,- abjuring and detesting the jurisdiction of all other pendulums whatever. 
I would therefore, desire him to consider that it is but poor eight miles from Shandy-Hall to Dr. Slop, the man midwife's house;-and that whilst Obadiah has been going those said miles and back, 
[Page 57]
I have brought my uncle Toby from Namur, quite across all Flanders, into England: -That I have had him ill upon my hands near four years;-and have since travelled him and Corporal Trim, in a chariot and four, a journey of near two hundred miles down into Yorkshire;-all which put together, must have prepared the reader's imagination for the entrance of Dr. Slop upon the stage,-as much, at least (I hope) as a dance, a song, or a concerto between the acts. 
If my hypercritic is intractable, alledging, that two minutes and thirteen seconds are no more than two minutes and thirteen seconds,-when I have said all I can about them;-and that this plea, tho' it might save me dramatically, will damn me biographically, rendering my book, from this very moment, a profess'd 
[Page 58]
Romance, which, before, was a book apocryphal: -If I am thus pressed -I then put an end to the whole objection and controversy about it all at once,-by acquainting him, that Obadiah had not got above threescore yards from the stable-yard before he met with Dr. Slop;-and indeed he gave a dirty proof that he had met with him,-and was within an ace of giving a tragical one too. 
Imagine to yourself;-but this had better begin a new chapter. 
CHAP. IX. 
Imagine to yourself a little, squat, uncourtly figure of a Doctor Slop, of about four feet and a half perpendicular 
[Page 59]
height, with a breadth of back, and a sesquipedality of belly, which might have done honour to a serjeant in the horse-guards. 
Such were the out-lines of Dr. Slop's figure, which,-if you have read Hogarth's analysis of beauty, and if you have not, I wish you would,-you must know, may as certainly be caracatur'd, and convey'd to the mind by three strokes as three hundred. 
Imagine such a one,-for such, I say, were the out-lines of Dr. Slop's figure, coming slowly along, foot by foot, waddling thro' the dirt upon the vertebræ of a little diminutive pony,-of a pretty colour;-but of strength,-alack!- scarce able to have made an amble of it, under such a fardel, had the roads been 
[Page 60]
in an ambling condition. -They were not. --Imagine to yourself, Obadiah mounted upon a strong monster of a coach-horse, prick'd into a full gallop, and making all practicable speed the adverse way. 
Pray, Sir, let me interest you a moment in this description. 
Had Dr. Slop beheld Obadiah a mile off, posting in a narrow lane directly towards him, at that monstrous rate,-- splashing and plunging like a devil thro' thick and thin, as he approach'd, would not such a phænomenon, with such a vortex of mud and water moving along with it, round its axis,-have been a subject of juster apprehension to Dr. Slop in his situation, than the worst of Whiston's comets? -To say nothing of the Nucleus; 
[Page 61]
that is, of Obadiah and the coach-horse. --In my idea, the vortex alone of 'em was enough to have involved and carried, if not the doctor, at least the doctor's pony quite away with it. What then do you think must the terror and hydrophobia of Dr. Slop have been, when you read (which you are just going to do) that he was advancing thus warily along towards Shandy-Hall, and had approach'd to within sixty yards of it, and within five yards of a sudden turn, made by an acute angle of the garden wall, -and in the dirtiest part of a dirty lane, -when Obadiah and his coach-horse turn'd the corner, rapid, furious,-pop, -full upon him! -Nothing, I think, in nature, can be supposed more terrible, than such a rencounter,-so imprompt! so ill prepared to stand the shock of it as Dr. Slop was! 

[Page 62]
What could Dr. Slop do? -He cross'd himself † -Pugh!-but the doctor, Sir, was a Papist. -No matter; he had better have kept hold of the pummel. He had so;-nay, as it happened, he had better have done nothing at all;-for in crossing himself he let go his whip,- and in attempting to save his whip betwixt his knee and his saddle's skirt, as it slipp'd, he lost his stirrup,-in losing which, he lost his seat;-and in the multitude of all these losses (which, by the bye, shews what little advantage there is in crossing) the unfortunate doctor lost his presence of mind. So that, without waiting for Obadiah's onset, he left his pony to its destiny, tumbling off it diagonally, something in the stile and manner of a pack of wool, and without any other consequence from the fall, save that of being left (as it would have been) 
[Page 63]
with the broadest part of him sunk about twelve inches deep in the mire. 
Obadiah pull'd off his cap twice to Dr. Slop;-once as he was falling,-and then again when he saw him seated. -Ill-timed complaisance!-had not the fellow better have stopp'd his horse, and got off and help'd him? -Sir, he did all that his situation would allow;-but the Momentum of the coach-horse was so great, that Obadiah could not do it all at once;-he rode in a circle three times round Dr. Slop, before he could fully accomplish it any how;-and at the last, when he did stop his beast, 'twas done with such an explosion of mud, that Obadiah had better have been a league off. In short, never was a Dr. Slop so beluted, and so transubstantiated, since that affair came into fashion. 

[Page 64]

CHAP. X. 
When Dr. Slop entered the back-parlour, where my father and my uncle Toby were discoursing upon the nature of women,-it was hard to determine whether Dr. Slop's figure, or Dr. Slop's presence, occasioned more surprize to them; for as the accident happened so near the house, as not to make it worth while for Obadiah to remount him,-Obadiah had led him in as he was, unwiped, unappointed, unanealed, with all his stains and blotches on him. -- He stood like Hamlet's ghost, motionless and speechless, for a full minute and a half, at the parlour door (Obadiah still holding his hand) with all the majesty of mud. His hinder parts, upon which he had received his fall, totally 
[Page 65]
besmear'd,-and in every other part of him, blotched over in such a manner with Obadiah's explosion, that you would have sworn (without mental reservation) that every grain of it had taken effect. 
Here was a fair opportunity for my uncle Toby to have triumph'd over my father in his turn;-for no mortal, who had beheld Dr. Slop in that pickle, could have dissented from so much, at least, of my uncle Toby's opinion, "" But it was the Argumentum ad hominem; and if my uncle Toby was not very expert at it, you may think, he might not care to use it. - No; the reason was,-'twas not his nature to insult. 

[Page 66]
Dr. Slop's presence, at that time, was no less problematical than the mode of it; tho', it is certain, one moment's reflection in my father might have solved it; for he had apprized Dr. Slop but the week before, that my mother was at her full reckoning; and as the doctor had heard nothing since, 'twas natural and very political too in him, to have taken a ride to Shandy-Hall, as he did, merely to see how matters went on. 
But my father's mind took unfortunately a wrong turn in the investigation; running, like the hypercritic's, altogether upon the ringing of the bell and the rap upon the door,-measuring their distance, -and keeping his mind so intent upon the operation, as to have power to think of nothing else,-common-place infirmity of the greatest mathematicians! 
[Page 67]
working with might and main at the demonstration, and so wasting all their strength upon it, that they have none left in them to draw the corollary, to do good with. 
The ringing of the bell and the rap upon the door, struck likewise strong upon the sensorium of my uncle Toby,- but it excited a very different train of thoughts;-the two irreconcileable pulsations instantly brought Stevinus, the great engineer, along with them, into my uncle Toby's mind: -What business Stevinus had in this affair,-is the greatest problem of all;-it shall be solved,- but not in the next chapter. 

[Page 68]

CHAP. XI. 
Writing, when properly managed, (as you may be sure I think mine is) is but a different name for conversation: As no one, who knows what he is about in good company, would venture to talk all;-so no author, who understands the just boundaries of decorum and good breeding, would presume to think all: The truest respect which you can pay to the reader's understanding, is to halve this matter amicably, and leave him something to imagine, in his turn, as well as yourself. 
For my own part, I am eternally paying him compliments of this kind, and do all that lies in my power to keep his imagination as busy as my own. 

[Page 69]
'Tis his turn now;-I have given an ample description of Dr. Slop's sad overthrow, and of his sad appearance in the back-parlour;-his imagination must now go on with it for a while. 
Let the reader imagine then, that Dr. Slop has told his tale;-and in what words, and with what aggravations his fancy chooses: -Let him suppose, that Obadiah has told his tale also, and with such rueful looks of affected concern, as he thinks will best contrast the two figures as they stand by each other: - Let him imagine, that my father has stepp'd up stairs to see my mother: - And, to conclude this work of imagination, -let him imagine the doctor wash'd, -rubb'd down,-condoled with,- felicitated,-got into a pair of Obadiah's pumps, stepping forwards towards the 
[Page 70]
door, upon the very point of entring upon action. 
Truce!-truce, good Dr. Slop!-stay thy obstetric hand;-return it safe into thy bosom to keep it warm;-little dost thou know what obstacles;-little dost thou think what hidden causes retard its operation! -Hast thou, Dr. Slop,-hast thou been intrusted with the secret articles of this solemn treaty which has brought thee into this place? -Art thou aware, that at this instant, a daughter of Lucina is put obstetrically over thy head? Alas! 'tis too true. -Besides, great son of Pilumnus! what canst thou do? -Thou hast come forth unarm'd;-thou hast left thy tire tête,-thy new-invented forceps,-thy crotchet,-thy squirt, and all thy instruments of salvation and deliverance behind thee. -By heaven! 
[Page 71]
at this moment they are hanging up in a green bays bag, betwixt thy two pistols, at thy bed's head! -Ring;-call;-send Obadiah back upon the coach-horse to bring them with all speed. 
-Make great haste, Obadiah, quoth my father, and I'll give thee a crown;- and, quoth my uncle Toby, I'll give him another. 
CHAP. XII. 
Your sudden and unexpected arrival, quoth my uncle Toby, addressing himself to Dr. Slop (all three of them sitting down to the fire together, as my uncle Toby began to speak)-instantly brought the great Stevinus into my head, who, you must know, is a favourite 
[Page 72]
author with me. -Then, added my father, making use of the argument Ad Crumenam,-I will lay twenty guineas to a single crown piece, (which will serve to give away to Obadiah when he gets back) that this same Stevinus was some engineer or other,- or has wrote something or other, either directly or indirectly, upon the science of fortification. 
He has so,-replied my uncle Toby. - I knew it, said my father;-tho', for the soul of me, I cannot see what kind of connection there can be betwixt Dr. Slop's sudden coming, and a discourse upon fortification;-yet I fear'd it. - Talk of what we will, brother,-or let the occasion be never so foreign or unfit for the subject,-you are sure to bring it in: I would not, brother Toby, continued 
[Page 73]
my father,-I declare I would not have my head so full of curtins and horn-works-That, I dare say, you would not, quoth Dr. Slop, interrupting him, and laughing most immoderately at his pun. 
Dennis the critic could not detest and abhor a pun, or the insinuation of a pun, more cordially than my father;-he would grow testy upon it at any time;- but to be broke in upon by one, in a serious discourse, was as bad, he would say, as a fillip upon the nose;-he saw no difference. 
Sir, quoth my uncle Toby, addressing himself to Dr. Slop,-the curtins my brother Shandy mentions here, have nothing to do with bed-steads;-tho', I know, Du Cange says, ""-nor have the horn-works, he speaks of, any thing in the world to do with the horn-works of cuckoldom: -But the curtin, Sir, is the word we use in fortification, for that part of the wall or rampart which lies between the two bastions and joins them. -Besiegers seldom offer to carry on their attacks directly against the curtin, for this reason, because they are so well flanked. ('Tis the case of other curtins, quoth Dr. Slop, laughing). However, continued my uncle Toby, to make them sure, we generally choose to place ravelins before them, taking care only to extend them beyond the fossé or ditch: -The common men, who know very little of fortification, confound the ravelin and the half-moon together,-tho' they are very different things;-not in their figure or 
[Page 75]
construction, for we make them exactly alike in all points;-for they always consist of two faces, making a salient angle, with the gorges, not straight, but in form of a crescent. -Where then lies the difference? (quoth my father, a little testily). -In their situations, answered my uncle Toby: -For when a ravelin, brother, stands before the curtin, it is a ravelin; and when a ravelin stands before a bastion, then the ravelin is not a ravelin; -it is a half-moon;-a half-moon likewise is a half-moon, and no more, so long as it stands before its bastion;-but was it to change place, and get before the curtin,-'twould be no longer a half-moon; a half-moon, in that case, is not a half-moon;-'tis no more than a ravelin. -I think, quoth my father, that the noble science of defence has its weak sides,-as well as others. 

[Page 76]
-As for the horn-works (high! ho! sigh'd my father) which, continued my uncle Toby, my brother was speaking of, they are a very considerable part of an outwork;-they are called by the French engineers, Ouvrage à corne, and we generally make them to cover such places as we suspect to be weaker than the rest;- 'tis form'd by two epaulments or demi-bastions, -they are very pretty, and if you will take a walk, I'll engage to shew you one well worth your trouble. --I own, continued my uncle Toby, when we crown them,-they are much stronger, but then they are very expensive, and take up a great deal of ground; so that, in my opinion, they are most of use to cover or defend the head of a camp; otherwise the double tenaille-By the mother who bore us!-brother 
[Page 77]
Toby, quoth my father, not able to hold out any longer,-you would provoke a saint;-here have you got us, I know not how, not only souse into the middle of the old subject again: But so full is your head of these confounded works, that tho' my wife is this moment in the pains of labour,-and you hear her cry out,- yet nothing will serve you but to carry off the man-midwife. -Accoucheur,- if you please, quoth Dr. Slop. -With all my heart, replied my father, I don't care what they call you,-but I wish the whole science of fortification, with all its inventors, at the devil;-it has been the death of thousands,-and it will be mine, in the end. -I would not, I would not, brother Toby, have my brains so full of saps, mines, blinds, gabions, palisadoes, ravelins, half-moons, and such trumpery, 
[Page 78]
to be proprietor of Namur, and of all the towns in Flanders with it. 
My uncle Toby was a man patient of injuries;-not from want of courage,-I have told you in the fifth chapter of this second book, "" -And will add here, that where just occasions presented, or called it forth,-I know no man under whose arm I would sooner have taken shelter; nor did this arise from any insensibility or obtuseness of his intellectual parts;- for he felt this insult of my father's as feelingly as a man could do;-but he was of a peaceful, placid nature,-no jarring element in it,-all was mix'd up so kindly within him; my uncle Toby had scarce a heart to retaliate upon a fly. 

[Page 79]
-Go-says he, one day at dinner, to an over-grown one which had buzz'd about his nose, and tormented him cruelly all dinner-time,-and which, after infinite attempts, he had caught at last, as it flew by him;-I'll not hurt thee, says my uncle Toby, rising from his chair, and going across the room, with the fly in his hand, -I'll not hurt a hair of thy head: -Go, says he, lifting up the sash, and opening his hand as he spoke, to let it escape;- go poor devil, get thee gone, why should I hurt thee? -This world surely is wide enough to hold both thee and me. 
I was but ten years old when this happened; -but whether it was, that the action itself was more in unison to my nerves at that age of pity, which instantly set my whole frame into one vibration of most pleasurable sensation;-or how 
[Page 80]
far the manner and expression of it might go towards it;-or in what degree, or by what secret magic,-a tone of voice and harmony of movement, attuned by mercy, might find a passage to my heart, I know not;-this I know, that the lesson of universal good-will then taught and imprinted by my uncle Toby, has never since been worn out of my mind: And tho' I would not depreciate what the study of the Literæ humaniores, at the university, have done for me in that respect, or discredit the other helps of an expensive education bestowed upon me, both at home and abroad since;-yet I often think that I owe one half of my philanthropy to that one accidental impression. 
? This is to serve for parents and governors instead of a whole volume upon the subject. 

[Page 81]
I could not give the reader this stroke in my uncle Toby's picture, by the instrument with which I drew the other parts of it,-that taking in no more than the mere Hobby-Horsical likeness; -this is a part of his moral character. My father, in this patient endurance of wrongs, which I mention, was very different, as the reader must long ago have noted; he had a much more acute and quick sensibility of nature, attended with a little soreness of temper; tho' this never transported him to any thing which looked like malignancy;--yet, in the little rubs and vexations of life, 'twas apt to shew itself in a drollish and witty kind of peevishness: -He was, however, frank and generous in his nature; -at all times open to conviction; and in the little ebullitions of this sub-acid humour towards others, but particularly 
[Page 82]
towards my uncle Toby, whom he truly loved,-he would feel more pain, ten times told (except in the affair of my aunt Dinah, or where an hypothesis was concerned) than what he ever gave. 
The characters of the two brothers, in this view of them, reflected light upon each other, and appear'd with great advantage in this affair which arose about Stevinus. 
I need not tell the reader, if he keeps a Hobby-Horse,-that a man's Hobby-Horse is as tender a part as he has about him; and that these unprovoked strokes, at my uncle Toby's could not be unfelt by him. -No;-as I said above, my uncle Toby did feel them, and very sensibly too. 

[Page 83]
Pray, Sir, what said he? -How did he behave? -Oh, Sir!-it was great: For as soon as my father had done insulting his Hobby-Horse,-he turned his head, without the least emotion, from Dr. Slop, to whom he was addressing his discourse, and look'd up into my father's face, with a countenance spread over with so much good nature;-so placid;-so fraternal;-so inexpressibly tender towards him;-it penetrated my father to his heart: He rose up hastily from his chair, and seizing hold of both my uncle Toby's hands as he spoke. - Brother Toby, said he,-I beg thy pardon; -forgive, I pray thee, this rash humour which my mother gave me. - My dear, dear brother, answer'd my uncle Toby, rising up by my father's help, say no more about it;-you are heartily welcome, had it been ten times as much, 
[Page 84]
brother. But 'tis ungenerous, replied my father, to hurt any man;-a brother worse;-but to hurt a brother of such gentle manners,-so unprovoking,-and so unresenting;-'tis base: -By heaven, 'tis cowardly. --You are heartily welcome, brother, quoth my uncle Toby,- had it been fifty times as much. - Besides, what have I to do, my dear Toby, cried my father, either with your amusements or your pleasures, unless it was in my power (which it is not) to increase their measure? 
-Brother Shandy, answer'd my uncle Toby, looking wistfully in his face,-you are much mistaken in this point;-for you do increase my pleasure very much, in begetting children for the Shandy family at your time of life. -But, by that, Sir, quoth Dr. Slop, Mr. Shandy increases 
[Page 85]
his own. -Not a jot, quoth my father. 
CHAP. XIII. 
My brother does it, quoth my uncle Toby, out of principle. -In a family way, I suppose, quoth Dr. Slop. - Pshaw!-said my father,-'tis not worth talking of. 
CHAP. XIV. 
At the end of the last chapter, my father and my uncle Toby were left both standing, like Brutus and Cassius at the close of the scene making up their accounts. 

[Page 86]
As my father spoke the three last words, -he sat down;-my uncle Toby exactly followed his example, only, that before he took his chair, he rung the bell, to order Corporal Trim, who was in waiting, to step home for Stevinus;-my uncle Toby's house being no farther off than the opposite side of the way. 
Some men would have dropp'd the subject of Stevinus;-but my uncle Toby had no resentment in his heart, and he went on with the subject, to shew my father that he had none. 
Your sudden appearance, Dr. Slop, quoth my uncle, resuming the discourse, instantly brought Stevinus into my head. (My father, you may be sure, did not offer to lay any more wagers upon Stevinus's head)- continued my 
[Page 87]
uncle Toby, the celebrated sailing chariot, which belonged to Prince Maurice, and was of such wonderful contrivance and velocity, as to carry half a dozen people thirty German miles, in I don't know how few minutes,-was invented by Stevinus, that great mathematician and engineer. 
You might have spared your servant the trouble, quoth Dr. Slop (as the fellow is lame) of going for Stevinus's account of it, because, in my return from Leyden thro' the Hague, I walked as far as Schevling, which is two long miles, on purpose to take a view of it. 
-That's nothing, replied my uncle Toby, to what the learned Peireskius did, who walked a matter of five hundred miles, reckoning from Paris to Schevling, 
[Page 88]
and from Schevling to Paris back again, in order to see it,-and nothing else. 
Some men cannot bear to be out-gone. 
The more fool Peireskius, replied Dr. Slop. But mark, 'twas out of no contempt of Peireskius at all;-but that Peireskius's indefatigable labour in trudging so far on foot out of love for the sciences, reduced the exploit of Dr. Slop, in that affair, to nothing;-the more fool Peireskius, said he again: -Why so?- replied my father, taking his brother's part, not only to make reparation as fast as he could for the insult he had given him, which sat still upon my father's mind;-but partly, that my father began really to interest himself in the discourse. -Why so?-said he. Why is Peireskius, or any man else, to be abused for an appetite 
[Page 89]
for that, or any other morsel of sound knowledge? For, notwithstanding I know nothing of the chariot in question, continued he, the inventor of it must have had a very mechanical head; and tho' I cannot guess upon what principles of philosophy he has atchiev'd it;-yet certainly his machine has been constructed upon solid ones, be they what they will, or it could not have answer'd at the rate my brother mentions. 
It answered, replied my uncle Toby, as well, if not better; for, as Peireskius elegantly expresses it, speaking of the velocity of its motion, Tam citus erat, quam erat ventus; which, unless I have forgot my Latin, is, that it was as swift as the wind itself. 

[Page 90]
But pray, Dr. Slop, quoth my father, interrupting my uncle (tho' not without begging pardon for it, at the same time) upon what principles was this self-same chariot set a-going? -Upon very pretty principles to be sure, replied Dr. Slop;-and I have often wondered, continued he, evading the question, why none of our gentry, who live upon large plains like this of ours,-(especially they whose wives are not past child-bearing) attempt nothing of this kind; for it would not only be infinitely expeditious upon sudden calls, to which the sex is subject,-if the wind only served,-but would be excellent good husbandry to make use of the winds, which cost nothing, and which eat nothing, rather than horses, which (the devil take 'em) both cost and eat and great deal. 

[Page 91]
For that very reason, replied my father, ""-the scheme is bad;-it is the consumption of our products, as well as the manufacture of them, which gives bread to the hungry, circulates trade,-brings in money, and supports the value of our lands;-and tho', I own, if I was a prince, I would generously recompense the scientific head which brought forth such contrivances; -yet I would as peremptorily suppress the use of them. 
My father here had got into his element, -and was going on as prosperously with his dissertation upon trade, as my uncle Toby had before, upon his of fortification;-but, to the loss of much sound knowledge, the destinies in the morning had decreed that no 
[Page 92]
dissertation of any kind should be spun by my father that day;-for as he opened his mouth to begin the next sentence, 
CHAP. XV. 
In popp'd Corporal Trim with Stevinus: -But 'twas too late,-all the discourse had been exhausted without him, and was running into a new channel. 
-You may take the book home again, Trim, said my uncle Toby, nodding to him. 
But pri'thee, Corporal, quoth my father, drolling,-look first into it, and see if thou canst spy aught of a sailing chariot in it. 

[Page 93]
Corporal Trim, by being in the service, had learned to obey,-and not to remonstrate; -so taking the book to a side-table, and running over the leaves; an' please your Honour, said Trim, I can see no such thing;-however, continued the Corporal, drolling a little in his turn, I'll make sure work of it, an' please your Honour;-so taking hold of the two covers of the book, one in each hand, and letting the leaves fall down, as he bent the covers back, he gave the book a good sound shake. 
There is something fallen out, however, said Trim, an' please your Honour; but it is not a chariot, or any thing like one: -Pri'thee Corporal, said my father, smiling, what is it then? -I think, answered Trim, stooping to take it up,- 'tis more like a sermon,-for it begins, 
[Page 94]
with a text of scripture, and the chapter and verse;-and then goes on, not as a chariot,-but like a sermon directly. 
The company smiled. 
I cannot conceive how it is possible, quoth my uncle Toby, for such a thing as a sermon to have got into my Stevinus. 
I think 'tis a sermon, replied Trim;- but if it please your Honours, as it is a fair hand, I will read you a page;-for Trim, you must know, loved to hear himself read almost as well as talk. 
I have ever a strong propensity, said my father, to look into things which cross my way, by such strange fatalities as these;-and as we have nothing better to do, at least till Obadiah gets back, 
[Page 95]
I should be obliged to you, brother, if Dr. Slop has no objection to it, to order the Corporal to give us a page or two of it,-if he is as able to do it, as he seems willing. An' please your Honour, quoth Trim, I officiated two whole campaigns in Flanders, as clerk to the chaplain of the regiment. -He can read it, quoth my uncle Toby, as well as I can. -Trim, I assure you, was the best scholar in my company, and should have had the next halberd, but for the poor fellow's misfortune. Corporal Trim laid his hand upon his heart, and made an humble bow to his master;-then laying down his hat upon the floor, and taking up the sermon in his left-hand, in order to have his right at liberty,-he advanced, nothing doubting, into the middle of the room, where he could best see, and be best seen by, his audience. 

[Page 96]

CHAP. XVI. 
-If you have any objection,-said my father, addressing himself to Dr. Slop. Not in the least, replied Dr. Slop;-for it does not appear on which side of the question it is wrote;-it may be a composition of a divine of our church, as well as yours,-so that we run equal risks. -'Tis wrote upon neither side, quoth Trim, for 'tis only upon Conscience, an' please your Honours. 
Trim's reason put his audience into good humour,-all but Dr. Slop, who, turning his head about towards Trim, look'd a little angry. 
Begin, Trim,-and read distinctly, quoth my father;-I will, an' please your 
[Page 97]
Honour, replied the Corporal, making a bow, and bespeaking attention with a slight movement of his right-hand. 
CHAP. XVII. 
-But before the Corporal begins, I must first give you a description of his attitude;--otherwise he will naturally stand represented, by your imagination, in an uneasy posture,-stiff,-perpendicular, -dividing the weight of his body equally upon both legs;-his eye fix'd, as if on duty;-his look determined,- clinching the sermon in his left-hand, like his firelock: -In a word, you would be apt to paint Trim, as if he was standing in his platoon ready for action: - His attitude was as unlike all this as you can conceive. 

[Page 98]
He stood before them with his body swayed, and bent forwards just so far, as to make an angle of 85 degrees and a half upon the plain of the horizon;- which sound orators, to whom I address this, know very well, to be the true persuasive angle of incidence;-in any other angle you may talk and preach;-'tis certain,-and it is done every day;- but with what effect,-I leave the world to judge! 
The necessity of this precise angle of 85 degrees and a half to a mathematical exactness,-does it not shew us, by the way,-how the arts and sciences mutually befriend each other? 
How the duce Corporal Trim, who knew not so much as an acute angle from an obtuse one, came to hit it so exactly; 
[Page 99]
-or whether it was chance or nature, or good sense, or imitation, &c. shall be commented upon in that part of this cyclopædia of arts and sciences, where the instrumental parts of the eloquence of the senate, the pulpit, the bar, the coffee-house, the bed-chamber, and fire-side, fall under consideration. 
He stood,-for I repeat it, to take the picture of him in at one view, with his body sway'd, and somewhat bent forwards, -his right-leg firm under him, sustaining seven-eighths of his whole weight,-the foot of his left-leg, the defect of which was no disadvantage to his attitude, advanced a little,-not laterally, nor forwards, but in a line betwixt them;-his knee bent, but that not violently, -but so as to fall within the limits of the line of beauty;-and I add, 
[Page 100]
of the line of science too;-for consider, it had one eighth part of his body to bear up;-so that in this case the position of the leg is determined,-because the foot could be no further advanced, or the knee more bent, than what would allow him mechanically, to receive an eighth part of his whole weight under it,-and to carry it too. 
?This I recommend to painters?- need I add,-to orators? -I think not; for, unless they practise it,-they must fall upon their noses. 
So much for Corporal Trim's body and legs. -He held the sermon loosely,-not carelessly, in his left-hand, raised something above his stomach, and detach'd a little from his breast;-his right-arm falling negligently by his side, as nature 
[Page 101]
and the laws of gravity ordered it,-but with the palm of it open and turned towards his audience, ready to aid the sentiment, in case it stood in need. 
Corporal Trim's eyes and the muscles of his face were in full harmony with the other parts of him;-he look'd frank,- unconstrained,-something assured,- but not bordering upon assurance. 
Let not the critic ask how Corporal Trim could come by all this; I've told him it shall be explained;-but so he stood before my father, my uncle Toby, and Dr. Slop,-so swayed his body, so contrasted his limbs, and with such an oratorical sweep throughout the whole figure,-a statuary might have modell'd from it;-nay, I doubt whether the oldest Fellow of a College,-or the Hebrew 
[Page 102]
Professor himself, could have much mended it. 
Trim made a bow, and read as follows: 
The SERMON.
Hebrews xiii. 18.
-For we trust we have a good Conscience.- 
"" 
[Certainly, Trim, quoth my father, interrupting him, you give that sentence a very improper accent; for you curl up your nose, man, and read it with such a sneering tone, as if the Parson was going to abuse the Apostle. 

[Page 103]
He is, an' please your Honour, replied Trim. Pugh! said my father, smiling. 
Sir, quoth Dr. Slop, Trim is certainly in the right; for the writer (who I perceive is a Protestant) by the snappish manner in which he takes up the Apostle, is certainly going to abuse him,-if this treatment of him has not done it already. But from whence, replied my father, have you concluded so soon, Dr. Slop, that the writer is of our Church?-for aught I can see yet,-he may be of any Church: - answered Dr. Slop, if he was of ours,-he durst no more take such a licence,-than a bear by his beard: -If, in our communion, Sir, a man was to insult an Apostle,--a saint,--or even the paring of a saint's nail,-he would have his eyes scratched out. --What, by the saint, quoth my 
[Page 104]
uncle Toby. No, replied Dr. Slop,-he would have an old house over his head. Pray is the Inquisition an antient building, answered my uncle Toby, or is it a modern one? -I know nothing of architecture, replied Dr. Slop. -An' please your Honours, quoth Trim, the Inquisition is the vilest--Pri'thee spare thy description, Trim, I hate the very name of it, said my father. -No matter for that, answered Dr. Slop,-it has its uses; for tho' I'm no great advocate for it, yet in such a case as this, he would soon be taught better manners; and I can tell him, if he went on at that rate, would be flung into the Inquisition for his pains. God help him then, quoth my uncle Toby. Amen, added Trim; for, heaven above knows, I have a poor brother who has been fourteen years a captive in it. - I never heard one word of it before, said 
[Page 105]
my uncle Toby, hastily: -How came he there, Trim? --O, Sir! the story will make your heart bleed,-as it has made mine a thousand times;-but it is too long to be told now;-your Honour shall hear it from first to last some day when I am working beside you in our fortifications;--but the short of the story is this: --That my brother Tom went over a servant to Lisbon,-and then married a Jew's widow, who kept a small shop, and sold sausages, which, some how or other, was the cause of his being taken in the middle of the night out of his bed, where he was lying with his wife and two small children, and carried directly to the Inquisition, where, God help him, continued Trim, fetching a sigh from the bottom of his heart,-the poor honest lad lies confined at this hour;- he was as honest a soul, added Trim, 
[Page 106]
(pulling out his handkerchief) as ever blood warm'd.- 
-The tears trickled down Trim's cheeks faster than he could well wipe them away. -A dead silence in the room ensued for some minutes. -Certain proof of pity! 
Come, Trim, quoth my father, after he saw the poor fellow's grief had got a little vent,-read on,-and put this melancholy story out of thy head: -I grieve that I interrupted thee;-but pri'thee begin the sermon again;-for if the first sentence in it is matter of abuse, as thou sayest, I have a great desire to know what kind of provocation the Apostle has given. 
Corporal Trim wiped his face, and returning his handkerchief into his pocket, 
[Page 107]
and, making a bow as he did it,-he began again.] 
The SERMON.
Hebrews xiii. 18.
-For we trust we have a good Conscience.- 
"" 
[I am positive I am right, quoth Dr. Slop.] 

[Page 108]
"" 
[I defy him, without an assistant, quoth Dr. Slop.] 
"" 
[The language is good, and I declare Trim reads very well, quoth my father.] 
"" 
[Then the Apostle is altogether in the wrong, I suppose, quoth Dr. Slop, and the Protestant divine is in the right. Sir, have patience, replied my father, for I think it will presently appear that St. Paul and the Protestant divine are both of an opinion. -As nearly so, quoth Dr. Slop, as east is to west;-but this, continued he, lifting both hands, comes from the liberty of the press. 
It is no more, at the worst, replied my uncle Toby, than the liberty of the pulpit; for it does not appear that the sermon is printed, or ever likely to be. 

[Page 111]
Go on, Trim, quoth my father.] 
""I own, in one case, whenever a man's conscience does accuse him (as it seldom errs on that side) that he is guilty; and, unless in melancholy and hypocondriac cases, we may safely pronounce upon it, that there is always sufficient ground for the accusation. 
""A man shall be vicious and utterly debauched in his principles;-exceptionable in his conduct to the world; shall live shameless, in the open commission of a sin which no reason or pretence can justify;-a sin, by which 
[Page 115]
contrary to all the workings of humanity, he shall ruin for ever the deluded partner of his guilt;-rob her of her best dowry; and not only cover her own head with dishonour,-but involve a whole virtuous family in shame and sorrow for her sake. -Surely, you will think conscience must lead such a man a troublesome life;-he can have no rest night or day from its reproaches. 
""Perhaps He was gone out in company with Honour to fight a duel; 
[Page 116]
to pay off some debt at play;-or dirty annuity, the bargain of his lust: Perhaps Conscience all this time was engaged at home, talking loud against petty larceny, and executing vengeance upon some such puny crimes as his fortune and rank in life secured him against all temptation of committing; so that he lives as merrily,""sleeps as soundly in his bed;-and at last meets death as unconcernedly; -perhaps much more so than a much better man.""Another is sordid, unmerciful,""a strait-hearted, selfish wretch, incapable either of private friendship or public spirit. Take notice how he passes by the widow and orphan in their distress, and sees all the miseries incident to human life without a sigh or a prayer.""Shall not conscience rise up and sting him on such occasions? -No; thank God there is no occasion; I pay every man his own;-I have no fornication to answer to my conscience;-no faithless vows or promises to make up;-I have debauched no man's wife or child; thank God, I am not as other men, adulterers, unjust, or even as this libertine, who stands before me. 
""When old age comes on, and repentance calls him to look back upon this black account, and state it over again with his conscience,-Conscience looks into the Statutes at Large;-finds no express law broken by what he has done;-perceives no penalty or forfeiture of goods and chattels incurred;-sees no scourge waving over his head, or prison opening his gates upon him: -What is there to affright his conscience? -Conscience 
[Page 121]
has got safely entrenched behind the Letter of the Law; sits there invulnerable, fortified with Cases and Reports so strongly on all sides;-that it is not preaching can dispossess it of its hold.""A fourth man shall want even this refuge;-shall break through all this ceremony of slow chicane;-scorns the doubtful workings of secret plots and cautious trains to bring about his purpose: -See the bare-faced villain, how he cheats, lies, perjures, robs, murders. -Horrid! -But indeed much better was not to be expected, in the present case,-the poor man was in the dark!-his priest had got 
[Page 123]
the keeping of his conscience;-and all he would let him know of it, was, That he must believe in the Pope;- go to Mass;-cross himself;-tell his beads;-be a good Catholic, and that this, in all conscience, was enough to carry him to heaven. What;-if he perjures! -Why,-he had a mental reservation in it. -But if he is so wicked and abandoned a wretch as you represent him;-if he robs,-if he stabs,-will not conscience, on every such act, receive a wound itself? Aye, -but the man has carried it to confession; -the wound digests there, and will do well enough, and in a short time be quite healed up by absolution. O Popery! what hast thou to answer for?-when, not content with the too many natural and fatal ways, thro' which the heart of man is 
[Page 124]
every day thus treacherous to itself above all things;-thou hast wilfully set open this wide gate of deceit before the face of this unwary traveller, too apt, God knows, to go astray of himself; and confidently speak peace to himself, when there is no peace. 
""Let him consider in how different a degree of detestation, numbers of wicked actions stand there, tho' equally 
[Page 125]
bad and vicious in their own natures; -he will soon find that such of them, as strong inclination and custom have prompted him to commit, are generally dress'd out and painted with all the false beauties, which a soft and a flattering hand can give them;-and that the others, to which he feels no propensity, appear, at once, naked and deformed, surrounded with all the true circumstances of folly and dishonour. 
""Thus conscience, this once able monitor, -placed on high as a judge within us, and intended by our Maker as a just and equitable one too,-by an unhappy train of causes and impediments, takes often such imperfect cognizance of what passes,-does its office so negligently,-sometimes so corruptly,-that it is not to be trusted alone; and therefore we find there is a necessity, an absolute necessity of 
[Page 127]
joining another principle with it to aid, if not govern, its determinations. 
""Let Conscience determine the matter upon these reports;-and then if thy heart condemns thee not, which is the case the Apostle supposes,-the 
[Page 128]
rule will be infallible;""thou wilt have confidence towards God;-that is, have just grounds to believe the judgment thou hast past upon thyself, is the judgment of God; and nothing else but an anticipation of that righteous sentence which will be pronounced upon thee hereafter by that Being, to whom thou art finally to give an account of thy actions. 
"" -[A tower has no strength, quoth my uncle Toby, unless 'tis flank'd.] "" 
[I see plainly, said my father, that this sermon has been composed to be preached at the Temple,-or at some Assize. -I like the reasoning,-and am sorry that Dr. Slop has fallen asleep before the time of his conviction;- for it is now clear, that the Parson, as I thought at first, never insulted St. Paul in the least;-nor has there been, brother, the least difference between them. -A great matter, if they had differed, replied my uncle Toby,-the best friends in the world may differ sometimes. -True,-brother Toby, quoth my father, shaking hands with him,- we'll fill our pipes, brother, and then Trim shall go on. 

[Page 131]
Well,-what dost thou think of it? said my father, speaking to Corporal Trim, as he reach'd his tobacco-box. 
I think, answer'd the Corporal, that the seven watch-men upon the tower, who, I suppose, are all centinels there,-are more, an' please your Honour, than were necessary;-and, to go on at that rate, would harrass a regiment all to pieces, which a commanding officer, who loves his men, will never do, if he can help it; because two centinels, added the Corporal, are as good as twenty. -I have been a commanding officer myself in the Corps de Garde a hundred times, continued Trim, rising an inch higher in his figure, as he spoke,-and all the time I had the honour to serve his Majesty King William, in relieving the most considerable posts, I never left more than two in my life. - 
[Page 132]
Very right, Trim, quoth my uncle Toby, -but you do not consider, Trim, that the towers, in Solomon's days, were not such things as our bastions, flank'd and defended by other works;-this, Trim, was an invention since Solomon's death; nor had they horn-works, or ravelins before the curtin, in his time;-or such a fossé as we make with a curvette in the middle of it, and with cover'd ways and counterscarps palisadoed along it, to guard against a Coup de main: -So that the seven men upon the tower were a party, I dare say, from the Corps de Garde, set there, not only to look out, but to defend it. -They could be no more, an' please your Honour, than a Corporal's Guard. -My father smiled inwardly,- but not outwardly;-the subject between my uncle Toby and Corporal Trim being rather too serious, considering what had 
[Page 133]
happened, to make a jest of: -So putting his pipe into his mouth, which he had just lighted,-he contented himself with ordering Trim to read on. He read on as follows:] 
""I said the attempt is often made, and so it is;-there being nothing 
[Page 134]
more common than to see a man who has no sense at all of religion,-and indeed has so much honesty as to pretend to none, who would take it as the bitterest affront, should you but hint at a suspicion of his moral character,- or imagine he was not conscientiously just and scrupulous to the uttermost mite. 
""Let him declaim as pompously as he chooses upon the subject, it will 
[Page 135]
be found to rest upon no better foundation than either his interest, his pride, his ease, or some such little and changeable passion as will give us but small dependance upon his actions in matters of great stress. 
""I know the banker I deal with, or the physician I usually call in,""to be neither of them men of much religion: I hear them make a jest of it every day, and treat all its sanctions with so much scorn, as to put the matter past doubt. Well;-notwithstanding this, I put my fortune into the hands of the one;-and what is dearer still to me, 
[Page 136]
I trust my life to the honest skill of the other. 
""But put it otherwise, namely, that interest lay, for once, on the other side; that a case should happen, wherein the one, without stain to his reputation, could secrete my fortune, and leave 
[Page 137]
me naked in the world;-or that the other could send me out of it, and enjoy an estate by my death, without dishonour to himself or his art: -In this case, what hold have I of either of them? -Religion, the strongest of all motives, is out of the question: -Interest, the next most powerful motive in the world, is strongly against me: - What have I left to cast into the opposite scale to balance this temptation? - Alas! I have nothing,-nothing but what is lighter than a bubble-I must lye at the mercy of Honour, or some such capricious principle. -Strait security for two of my most valuable blessings! -my property and my life. 
""He shall not only be covetous, revengeful, implacable,-but even wanting in points of common honesty; yet, inasmuch as he talks aloud against the infidelity of the age,- is zealous for some points of religion, -goes twice a day to church, -attends the sacraments,-and amuses himself with a few instrumental parts of religion,-shall cheat his conscience into a judgment that, for this, he is a religious man, and has discharged truly his duty to God: 
[Page 139]
And you will find that such a man, through force of this delusion, generally looks down with spiritual pride upon every other man who has less affectation of piety,-though, perhaps, ten times more moral honesty than himself. 
""- [Well, what can you make of that, cried Dr. Slop?]-"" [They may thank their own obstinacy, cried Dr. Slop] ""In how many kingdoms of the world,""In how many kingdoms of the world has the crusading sword of this misguided saint-errant spared neither age, or merit, or sex, or condition?-and, as he fought under the banners of a religion which set him loose from justice and humanity, he shew'd none; mercilessly trampled upon both,- heard neither the cries of the unfortunate, nor pitied their distresses.""If the testimony of past centuries in this matter is not sufficient,-consider at this instant, how the votaries of that religion are every day thinking to do service and honour to God, by actions which are a dishonour and scandal to themselves. 
"" [God help my poor brother Tom.] -"" [Here Trim's face turned as pale as ashes!] ""-[Here the tears began to trickle down] "" -[D---n them all, quoth Trim, his colour returning into his face as red as blood.] -"" -[Oh! 'tis my brother, cried poor Trim in a most passionate exclamation, dropping the sermon upon the ground, and clapping his hands together 
[Page 144]
-I fear 'tis poor Tom. My father's and my uncle Toby's hearts yearn'd with sympathy for the poor fellow's distress, -even Slop himself acknowledged pity for him. -Why, Trim, said my father, this is not a history,-'tis a sermon thou art reading;-pri'thee begin the sentence again.] -""Observe the last movement of that horrid engine!""See what convulsions it has thrown him into! -Consider the nature of the posture in which he now lies stretched,-what exquisite tortures he endures by it!""'Tis all nature can bear! Good God! see how it keeps his weary soul hanging upon his trembling lips!""-Consider the nature of the posture in which he now lies stretch'd,-what exquisite torture he endures by it! - 'Tis all nature can bear! -Good God! See how it keeps his weary soul hanging upon his trembling lips,-willing to take its leave,--but not suffered to depart! --Behold the unhappy wretch led back to his cell!""See him dragg'd out of it again to meet the flames, and the insults in his last agonies, which this principle,--this principle, that there can be religion without mercy, has prepared for him.""The surest way to try the merit of any disputed notion is, to trace down the consequences such a notion has produced, and compare them with the spirit of Christianity;-'tis the short and decisive rule which our Saviour hath left us, for these and such-like cases, and it is worth a thousand arguments, -By their fruits ye shall know them. 
""First, Whenever a man talks loudly against religion,-always suspect that it is not his reason, but his passions which have got the better of his Creed. A bad life and a good belief are disagreeable and troublesome neighbours, and where they separate, depend upon it, 'tis for no other cause but quietness sake. 
""In a word,-trust that man in nothing, who has not a Conscience in every thing. 
"" 
FINIS.

[Page 150]
Thou hast read the sermon extremely well, Trim, quoth my father. -If he had spared his comments, replied Dr. Slop, he would have read it much better. I should have read it ten times better, Sir, answered Trim, but that my heart was so full. -That was the very reason, Trim, replied my father, which has made thee read the sermon as well as thou hast done; and if the clergy of our church, continued my father, addressing himself to Dr. Slop, would take part in what they deliver, as deeply as this poor fellow has done,-as their compositions are fine; (I deny it, quoth Dr. Slop) I maintain it, that the eloquence of our pulpits, with such subjects to inflame it,-would be a model for the whole world: -But, alas! continued my father, and I own it, Sir, with sorrow, that, like French politicians in this respect, what they gain in the cabinet 
[Page 151]
they lose in the field. -'Twere a pity, quoth my uncle, that this should be lost. I like the sermon well, replied my father, --'tis dramatic,-and there is something in that way of writing, when skilfully managed, which catches the attention. --We preach much in that way with us, said Dr. Slop. -I know that very well, said my father,-but in a tone and manner which disgusted Dr. Slop, full as much as his assent, simply, could have pleased him. -But in this, added Dr. Slop, a little piqued,-our sermons have greatly the advantage, that we never introduce any character into them below a patriarch or a patriarch's wife, or a martyr or a saint. -There are some very bad characters in this, however, said my father, and I do not think the sermon a jot the worse for 'em. -But pray, quoth my uncle Toby,-who's can this 
[Page 152]
be? -How could it get into my Stevinus? A man must be as great a conjurer as Stevinus, said my father, to resolve the second question: -The first, I think, is not so difficult;-for unless my judgment greatly deceives me,-I know the author, for 'tis wrote, certainly, by the parson of the parish. 
The similitude of the stile and manner of it, with those my father constantly had heard preach'd in his parish-church, was the ground of his conjecture, -proving it as strongly, as an argument à priori could prove such a thing to a philosophic mind, that it was Yorick's and no one's else: -- It was proved to be so à posteriori, the day after, when Yorick sent a servant to my uncle Toby's house to enquire after it. 

[Page 153]
It seems that Yorick, who was inquisitive after all kinds of knowledge, had borrowed Stevinus of my uncle Toby, and had carelesly popp'd his sermon, as soon as he had made it, into the middle of Stevinus; and, by an act of forgetfulness, to which he was ever subject, he had sent Stevinus home, and his sermon to keep him company. 
Ill-fated sermon! Thou wast lost, after this recovery of thee, a second time, dropp'd thro' an unsuspected fissure in thy master's pocket, down into a treacherous and a tatter'd lining,-trod deep into the dirt by the left hind foot of his Rosinante, inhumanly stepping upon thee as thou falledst;-buried ten days in the mire,-raised up out of it by a beggar, sold for a halfpenny to a parish-clerk,- transferred to his parson,-lost for ever 
[Page 154]
to thy own, the remainder of his days,- nor restored to his restless Manes till this very moment, that I tell the world the story. 
Can the reader believe, that this sermon of Yorick's was preach'd at an assize, in the cathedral of York, before a thousand witnesses, ready to give oath of it, by a certain prebendary of that church, and actually printed by him when he had done,-and within so short a space as two years and three months after Yorick's death. -Yorick, indeed, was never better served in his life!-but it was a little hard to male-treat him after, and plunder him after he was laid in his grave. 
However, as the gentleman who did it, was in perfect charity with Yorick,- and, in conscious justice, printed but a 
[Page 155]
few copies to give away;-and that, I am told, he could moreover have made as good a one himself, had he thought fit, -I declare I would not have published this anecdote to the world;-nor do I publish it with an intent to hurt his character and advancement in the church;- I leave that to others;-but I find myself impelled by two reasons, which I cannot withstand. 
The first is, That, in doing justice, I may give rest to Yorick's ghost;-which, as the country people,-and some others, believe,-still walks. 
The second reason is, That, by laying open this story to the world, I gain an opportunity of informing it,-That in case the character of parson Yorick, and this sample of his sermons is liked,-that 
[Page 156]
there are now in the possession of the Shandy family, as many as will make a handsome volume, at the world's service, -and much good may they do it. 
CHAP. XVIII. 
Obadiah gain'd the two crowns without dispute; for he came in jingling, with all the instruments in the green bays bag we spoke of, slung across his body, just as Corporal Trim went out of the room. 
It is now proper, I think, quoth Dr. Slop (clearing up his looks) as we are in a condition to be of some service to Mrs. Shandy, to send up stairs to know how she goes on. 

[Page 157]
I have ordered, answered my father, the old midwife to come down to us upon the least difficulty;--for you must know, Dr. Slop, continued my father, with a perplexed kind of a smile upon his countenance, that by express treaty, solemnly ratified between me and my wife, you are no more than an auxiliary in this affair,-and not so much as that,--unless the lean old mother of a midwife above stairs cannot do without you. -Women have their particular fancies, and in points of this nature, continued my father, where they bear the whole burden, and suffer so much acute pain for the advantage of our families, and the good of the species, -they claim a right of deciding, en Soveraines, in whose hands, and in what fashion, they chuse to undergo it. 

[Page 158]
They are in the right of it,-quoth my uncle Toby. But, Sir, replied Dr. Slop, not taking notice of my uncle Toby's opinion, but turning to my father,-they had better govern in other points;-and a father of a family, who wished its perpetuity, in my opinion, had better exchange this prerogative with them, and give up some other rights in lieu of it. - I know not, quoth my father, answering a little too testily, to be quite dispassionate in what he said,-I know not, quoth he, what we have left to give up, in lieu of who shall bring our children into the world,-unless that,-of who shall beget them. --One would almost give up any thing, replied Dr. Slop. --I beg your pardon,-answered my uncle Toby. --Sir, replied Dr. Slop, it would astonish you to know what Improvements we have made of late years in all branches 
[Page 159]
of obstetrical knowledge, but particularly in that one single point of the safe and expeditious extraction of the fœtus, -which has received such lights, that, for my part (holding up his hands) I declare I wonder how the world has- I wish, quoth my uncle Toby,  
CHAP. XIX. 
I Have dropp'd the curtain over this scene for a minute,-to remind you of one thing,-and to inform you of another. 
What I have to inform you, comes, I own, a little out of its due course;-for it should have been told a hundred and 
[Page 160]
fifty pages ago, but that I foresaw then 'twould come in pat hereafter, and be of more advantage here than elsewhere. - Writers had need look before them to keep up the spirit and connection of what they have in hand. 
When these two things are done,-the curtain shall be drawn up again, and my uncle Toby, my father, and Dr. Slop shall go on with their discourse, without any more interruption. 
First, then, the matter which I have to remind you of, is this;-that from the specimens of singularity in my father's notions in the point of Christian-names, and that other point previous thereto,- you was led, I think, into an opinion, (and I am sure I said as much) that my father was a gentleman altogether as odd 
[Page 161]
and whimsical in fifty other opinions. In truth, there was not a stage in the life of man, from the very first act of his begetting, -down to the lean and slipper'd pantaloon in his second childishness, but he had some favourite notion to himself, springing out of it, as sceptical, and as far out of the high-way of thinking, as these two which have been explained. 
-Mr. Shandy, my father, Sir, would see nothing in the light in which others placed it;-he placed things in his own light;-he would weigh nothing in common scales;-no,-he was too refined a researcher to lye open to so gross an imposition. -To come at the exact weight of things in the scientific steel-yard, the fulcrum, he would say, should be almost invisible, to avoid all friction from popular tenets;-without this the minutiæ 
[Page 162]
of philosophy, which should always turn the balance, will have no weight at all. - Knowledge, like matter, he would affirm, was divisible in infinitum;-that the grains and scruples were as much a part of it, as the gravitation of the whole world. -In a word, he would say, error was error,- no matter where it fell,-whether in a fraction,-or a pound,-'twas alike fatal to truth, and she was kept down at the bottom of her well as inevitably by a mistake in the dust of a butterfly's wing, -as in the disk of the sun, the moon, and all the stars of heaven put together. 
He would often lament that it was for want of considering this properly, and of applying it skilfully to civil matters, as well as to speculative truths, that so many things in this world were out of joint;- that the political arch was giving way;- 
[Page 163]
and that the very foundations of our excellent constitution in church and state, were so sapp'd as estimators had reported. 
You cry out, he would say, we are a ruined, undone people. -Why? he would ask, making use of the sorites or syllogism of Zeno and Chrysippus, without knowing it belonged to them. -Why? why are we a ruined people? -Because we are corrupted. -Whence is it, dear Sir, that we are corrupted? -Because we are needy;-our poverty, and not our wills, consent. - And wherefore, he would add,-are we needy? -From the neglect, he would answer, of our pence and our halfpence: - Our bank-notes, Sir, our guineas,-nay our shillings, take care of themselves. 
'Tis the same, he would say, throughout the whole circle of the sciences;- 
[Page 164]
the great, the established points of them, are not to be broke in upon. -The laws of nature will defend themselves;-but error-(he would add, looking earnestly at my mother)-error, Sir, creeps in thro' the minute holes, and small crevices, which human nature leaves unguarded. 
This turn of thinking in my father, is what I had to remind you of: -The point you are to be informed of, and which I have reserved for this place, is as follows: 
Amongst the many and excellent reasons, with which my father had urged my mother to accept of Dr. Slop's assistance preferably to that of the old woman, -there was one of a very singular nature; which, when he had done arguing the matter with her as a Christian, and came to argue it over again with her 
[Page 165]
as a philosopher, he had put his whole strength to, depending indeed upon it as his sheet anchor. -It failed him; tho' from no defect in the argument itself; but that, do what he could, he was not able for his soul to make her comprehend the drift of it. -Cursed luck!-said he to himself, one afternoon, as he walk'd out of the room, after he had been stating it for an hour and a half to her, to no manner of purpose;-cursed luck!biting his lip as he shut the door, -for a man to be master of one of the finest chains of reasoning in nature,- and have a wife at the same time with such a head-piece, that he cannot hang up a single inference within side of it, to save his soul from destruction. 
This argument, tho' it was intirely lost upon my mother,-had more weight with 
[Page 166]
him, than all his other arguments joined together: -I will therefore endeavour to do it justice,-and set it forth with all the perspicuity I am master of. 
My father set out upon the strength of these two following axioms: 
First, That an ounce of a man's own wit, was worth a tun of other peoples; and, 
Secondly, (Which, by the bye, was the ground-work of the first axiom,-tho' it comes last) That every man's wit must come from every man's own soul,-and no other body's. 
Now, as it was plain to my father, that all souls were by nature equal,-and that the great difference between the most acute and the most obtuse understanding, 
[Page 167]
-was from no original sharpness or bluntness of one thinking substance above or below another,-but arose merely from the lucky or unlucky organization of the body, in that part where the soul principally took up her residence,-he had made it the subject of his enquiry to find out the identical place. 
Now, from the best accounts he had been able to get of this matter, he was satisfied it could not be where Des Cartes had fixed it, upon the top of the pineal gland of the brain; which, as he philosophised, formed a cushion for her about the size of a marrow pea; tho' to speak the truth, as so many nerves did terminate all in that one place,-'twas no bad conjecture; -and my father had certainly fallen with that great philosopher plumb into the center of the mistake, had it not 
[Page 168]
been for my uncle Toby, who rescued him out of it, by a story he told him of a Walloon officer at the battle of Landen, who had one part of his brain shot away by a musket-ball,-and another part of it taken out after by a French surgeon; and, after all, recovered, and did his duty very well without it. 
If death, said my father, reasoning with himself, is nothing but the separation of the soul from the body;-and if it is true that people can walk about and do their business without brains,-then certes the soul does not inhabit there. Q.E.D. 
As for that certain, very thin, subtle, and very fragrant juice which Coglionissimo Borri, the great Milaneze physician, affirms, in a letter to Bartholine, to have discovered in the cellulæ of the occipital parts 
[Page 169]
of the cerebellum, and which he likewise affirms to be the principal seat of the reasonable soul (for, you must know, in these latter and more enlightened ages, there are two souls in every man living,-the one, according to the great Metheglingius, being called the Animus, the other the Anima);-as for this opinion, I say, of Borri,-my father could never subscribe to it by any means; the very idea of so noble, so refined, so immaterial, and so exalted a being as the Anima, or even the Animus, taking up her residence, and sitting dabbling, like a tad-pole, all day long, both summer and winter, in a puddle,-or in a liquid of any kind, how thick or thin soever, he would say, shock'd his imagination; he would scarce give the doctrine a hearing. 
What, therefore, seem'd the least liable to objections of any, was, that the chief 
[Page 170]
sensorium, or head-quarters of the soul, and to which place all intelligences were referred, and from whence all her mandates were issued,-was in, or near, the cerebellum,-or rather some-where about the medulla oblongata, wherein it was generally agreed by Dutch anatomists, that all the minute nerves from all the organs of the seven senses concentered, like streets and winding alleys, into a square. 
So far there was nothing singular in my father's opinion,-he had the best of philosophers, of all ages and climates, to go along with him. -But here he took a road of his own, setting up another Shandean hypothesis upon these corner-stones they had laid for him;-and which said hypothesis equally stood its ground; whether the subtilty and fineness of the soul depended upon the temperature and clearness 
[Page 171]
of the said liquor, or of the finer net-work and texture in the cerebellum itself; which opinion he favoured. 
He maintained, that next to the due care to be taken in the act of propagation of each individual, which required all the thought in the world, as it laid the foundation of this incomprehensible contexture in which wit, memory, fancy, eloquence, and what is usually meant by the name of good natural parts, do consist; -that next to this and his Christian-name, which were the two original and most efficacious causes of all;-that the third cause, or rather what logicians call the Causa sine quâ non, and without which all that was done was of no manner of significance,-was the preservation of this delicate and fine-spun web, from the havock which was generally made in it by 
[Page 172]
the violent compression and crush which the head was made to undergo, by the nonsensical method of bringing us into the world by that part foremost. 
-This requires explanation. 
My father, who dipp'd into all kinds of books, upon looking into Lithopædus Senonesis de Partu difficili * 4 , published by 
[Page 173]
Adrianus Smelvgot, had found out, That the lax and pliable state of a child's head in parturition, the bones of the cranium having no futures at that time, was such,-that by force of the woman's efforts, which, in strong labour-pains, was equal, upon an average, to a weight of 470 pounds averdupoise acting perpendicularly upon it;-it so happened that, in 49 instances out of 50, the said head was compressed and moulded into the shape of an oblong conical piece of dough, such as a pastry-cook generally rolls up in order to make a pye of. - Good God! cried my father, what havock and destruction must this make in the infinitely fine and tender texture of the cerebellum! -Or if there is such a juice as Borri pretends,-is it not enough to make the clearest liquor in the world both feculent and mothery? 

[Page 174]
But how great was his apprehension, when he further understood, that this force, acting upon the very vertex of the head, not only injured the brain itself or cerebrum,-but that it necessarily squeez'd and propell'd the cerebrum towards the cerebellum, which was the immediate seat of the understanding. - Angels and Ministers of grace defend us! cried my father,-can any soul withstand this shock? -No wonder the intellectual web is so rent and tatter'd as we see it; and that so many of our best heads are no better than a puzzled skein of silk,-all perplexity,-all confusion within side. 
But when my father read on, and was let into the secret, that when a child was turn'd topsy-turvy, which was easy for an operator to do, and was extracted by the feet;-that instead of the cerebrum 
[Page 175]
being propell'd towards the cerebellum, the cerebellum, on the contrary, was propell'd simply towards the cerebrum where it could do no manner of hurt: -By heavens! cried he, the world is in a conspiracy to drive out what little wit God has given us,-and the professors of the obstetric art are listed into the same conspiracy. -What is it to me which end of my son comes foremost into the world, provided all goes right after, and his cerebellum escapes uncrushed? 
It is the nature of an hypothesis, when once a man has conceived it, that it assimilates every thing to itself as proper nourishment; and, from the first moment of your begetting it, it generally grows the stronger by every thing you see, hear, read, or understand. This is of great use. 

[Page 176]
When my father was gone with this about a month, there was scarce a phænomenon of stupidity or of genius, which he could not readily solve by it;-it accounted for the eldest son being the greatest blockhead in the family. -Poor devil, he would say,-he made way for the capacity of his younger brothers. -It unriddled the observation of drivellers and monstrous heads,-shewing, à priori, it could not be otherwise,--unless * * * * I don't know what. It wonderfully explain'd and accounted for the acumen of the Asiatic genius, and that sprightlier turn, and a more penetrating intuition of minds, in warmer climates; not from the loose and common-place solution of a clearer sky, and a more perpetual sun-shine, &c.- which, for aught he knew, might as well rarify and dilute the faculties of the soul into nothing, by one extreme,-as they 
[Page 177]
are condensed in colder climates by the other;-but he traced the affair up to its spring-head;-shew'd that, in warmer climates, nature had laid a lighter tax upon the fairest parts of the creation;- their pleasures more;-the necessity of their pains less, insomuch that the pressure and resistance upon the vertex was so slight, that the whole organization of the cerebellum was preserved;-nay, he did not believe, in natural births, that so much as a single thread of the net-work was broke or displaced,-so that the soul might just act as she liked. 
When my father had got so far,- what a blaze of light did the accounts of the Cæsarian section, and of the towering geniuses who had come safe into the world by it, cast upon this hypothesis? Here you see, he would say, there was no injury done to the sensorium;-no pressure 
[Page 178]
of the head against the pelvis;-no propulsion of the cerebrum towards the cerebellum, either by the os pubis on this side, or the os coxcygis on that;-and, pray, what were the happy consequences? Why, Sir, your Julius Cæsar, who gave the operation a name;-and your Hermes Trismegistus, who was born so before ever the operation had a name;-your Scipio Africanus; your Manlius Torquatus; our Edward the Sixth,-who, had he lived, would have done the same honour to the hypothesis: -These, and many more, who figur'd high in the annals of fame,-all came side-way, Sir, into the world. 
This incision of the abdomen and uterus, ran for six weeks together in my father's head;-he had read, and was satisfied, that wounds in the epigastrium, and those in the matrix, were not mortal;- so that the belly of the mother might be 
[Page 179]
opened extremely well to give a passage to the child. -He mentioned the thing one afternoon to my mother,-merely as a matter of fact;-but seeing her turn as pale as ashes at the very mention of it, as much as the operation flattered his hopes,-he thought it as well to say no more of it,-contenting himself with admiring -what he thought was to no purpose to propose. 
This was my father Mr. Shandy's hypothesis; concerning which I have only to add, that my brother Bobby did as great honour to it (whatever he did to the family) as any one of the great heroes we spoke of: -For happening not only to be christen'd, as I told you, but to be born too, when my father was at Epsom,- being moreover my mother's first child, -coming into the world with his head foremost,-and turning out afterwards a 
[Page 180]
lad of wonderful slow parts,-my father spelt all these together into his opinion; and as he had failed at one end,-he was determined to try the other. 
This was not to be expected from one of the sisterhood, who are not easily to be put out of their way,-and was therefore one of my father's great reasons in favour of a man of science, whom he could better deal with. 
Of all men in the world, Dr. Slop was the fittest for my father's purpose;-for though his new-invented forceps was the armour he had proved, and what he maintained, to be the safest instrument of deliverance,-yet, it seems, he had scattered a word or two in his book, in favour of the very thing which ran in my father's fancy;-tho' not with a view to the soul's good in extracting by the feet, 
[Page 181]
as was my father's system,-but for reasons merely obstetrical. 
This will account for the coalition betwixt my father and Dr. Slop, in the ensuing discourse, which went a little hard against my uncle Toby. -In what manner a plain man, with nothing but common sense, could bear up against two such allies in science,-is hard to conceive. - You may conjecture upon it, if you please, -and whilst your imagination is in motion, you may encourage it to go on, and discover by what causes and effects in nature it could come to pass, that my uncle Toby got his modesty by the wound he received upon his groin. -You may raise a system to account for the loss of my nose by marriage articles,-and shew the world how it could happen, that I should have the misfortune to be called Tristram, in opposition to my father's 
[Page 182]
hypothesis, and the wish of the whole family, God-fathers and God-mothers not excepted. -These, with fifty other points left yet unraveled, you may endeavour to solve if you have time;-but I tell you before-hand it will be in vain, -for not the sage Alquise, the magician in Don Belianis of Greece, nor the no less famous Urganda, the sorceress his wife, (were they alive) could pretend to come within a league of the truth. 
The reader will be content to wait for a full explanation of these matters till the next year,-when a series of things will be laid open which he little expects. 

END of the Second Volume.

Vol. 3 

[Page ]

[Page ]

Title Page 
THE LIFE AND OPINIONS OF TRISTRAM SHANDY, Gentleman. 

Multitudinis imperitæ non formido judicia; meis tamen, rogo, parcant opusculis-in quibus fuit propositi semper, a jocis ad seria, a seriis vicissim ad jocos transire. 
Joan. Saresberiensis, 
Episcopus Lugdun.
VOL. III.
London: Printed for R. and J. Dodsley in Pall-Mall; M.DCC.LXI.



[Page ]

[Blank page]


[Page 5]
THE LIFE and OPINIONS OF TRISTRAM SHANDY, Gent.
CHAP. I. 
-"" quoth my uncle Toby (repeating his wish for Dr. Slop a second time, and with a degree of more zeal and earnestness in his manner of wishing, than he had wished it at first * 5 )-"" quoth my uncle Toby, "" 

[Page 6]
My uncle Toby's wish did Dr. Slop a disservice which his heart never intended any man,--Sir, it confounded him- and thereby putting his ideas first into confusion, and then to flight, he could not rally them again for the soul of him. 
In all disputes,-male or female,- whether for honour, for profit or for love, -it makes no difference in the case;- nothing is more dangerous, madam, than a wish coming sideways in this unexpected manner upon a man: the safest way in general to take off the force of the wish, is, for the party wished at, instantly to get up upon his legs-and wish the wisher something in return, of pretty near the same value,-so balancing the account upon the spot, you stand as you were- nay sometimes gain the advantage of the attack by it. 

[Page 7]
This will be fully illustrated to the world in my chapter of wishes.- 
Dr. Slop did not understand the nature of this defence;-he was puzzled with it, and it put an entire stop to the dispute for four minutes and a half;- five had been fatal to it:-my father saw the danger-the dispute was one of the most interesting disputes in the world, ""-he waited to the last moment to allow Dr. Slop, in whose behalf the wish was made, his right of returning it; but perceiving, I say, that he was confounded, and continued looking with that perplexed vacuity of eye which puzzled souls generally stare with, -first in my uncle Toby's face-then in his-then up-then down-then 
[Page 8]
east-east and by east, and so on,- coasting it along by the plinth of the wainscot till he had got to the opposite point of the compass,-and that he had actually begun to count the brass nails upon the arm of his chair-my father thought there was no time to be lost with my uncle Toby, so took up the discourse as follows. 
CHAP. II. 
""- 
Brother Toby, replied my father, taking his wig from off his head with his right hand, and with his left pulling out a striped India handkerchief from his right coat pocket, in order to rub his head, 
[Page 9]
as he argued the point with my uncle Toby.- 
-Now, in this I think my father was much to blame; and I will give you my reasons for it. 
Matters of no more seeming consequence in themselves than, "" have divided the greatest kingdoms, and made the crowns of the monarchs who governed them, to totter upon their heads. -But need I tell you, Sir, that the circumstances with which every thing in this world is begirt, give every thing in this world its size and shape;-and by tightening it, or relaxing it, this way or that, make the thing to be, what it is- great-little-good-bad-indifferent 
[Page 10]
or not indifferent, just as the case happens. 
As my father's India handkerchief was in his right coat pocket, he should by no means have suffered his right hand to have got engaged: on the contrary, instead of taking off his wig with it, as he did, he ought to have committed that entirely to the left; and then, when the natural exigency my father was under of rubbing his head, call'd out for his handkerchief, he would have had nothing in the world to have done, but to have put his right hand into his right coat pocket and taken it out;-which he might have done without any violence, or the least ungraceful twist in any one tendon or muscle of his whole body. 
In this case, (unless indeed, my father 
[Page 11]
had been resolved to make a fool of himself by holding the wig stiff in his left hand-or by making some nonsensical angle or other at his elbow joint, or armpit) -his whole attitude had been easy- natural-unforced: Reynolds himself, as great and gracefully as he paints, might have painted him as he sat. 
Now, as my father managed this matter, -consider what a devil of a figure my father made of himself. 
-In the latter end of Queen Anne's reign, and in the beginning of the reign of King George the first-"" -- I need say no more-the father of mischief, had he had been hammering at it a month, could not have contrived a worse fashion for one in my father's situation. 

[Page 12]

CHAP. III. 
It was not an easy matter in any king's reign, (unless you were as lean a subject as myself) to have forced your hand diagonally, quite across your whole body, so as to gain the bottom of your opposite coat-pocket. -In the year, one thousand seven hundred and eighteen, when this happened, it was extremely difficult; so that when my uncle Toby discovered the transverse zig-zaggery of my father's approaches towards it, it instantly brought into his mind those he had done duty in, before the gate of St. Nicholas;-the idea of which drew off his attention so entirely from the subject in debate, that he had got his right hand to the bell to ring up Trim, to go and fetch his map of Namur, and his compasses and sector 
[Page 13]
along with it, to measure the returning angles of the traverses of that attack,- but particularly of that one, where he received his wound upon his groin. 
My father knit his brows, and as he knit them, all the blood in his body seemed to rush up into his face--my uncle Toby dismounted immediately. 
-I did not apprehend your uncle Toby was o' horseback.- 
CHAP. IV. 
A Man's body and his mind, with the utmost reverence to both I speak it, are exactly like a jerkin, and a jerkin's lining;-rumple the one-you rumple the other. There is one certain exception however in this case, and that is, 
[Page 14]
when you are so fortunate a fellow, as to have had your jerkin made of a gum-taffeta, and the body-lining to it, of a sarcenet or thin persian. 
Zeno, Cleanthes, Diogenes Babylonius, Dyonisius Heracleotes, Antipater, Panætius and Possidonius amongst the Greeks;- Cato and Varro and Seneca amongst the Romans;-Pantenus and Clemens Alexandrinus and Montaigne amongst the Christians; and a score and a half of good honest, unthinking, Shandean people as ever lived, whose names I can't recollect,- all pretended that their jerkins were made after this fashion,-you might have rumpled and crumpled, and doubled and creased, and fretted and fridged the outsides of them all to pieces;-in short, you might have played the very devil with them, and at the same time, not 
[Page 15]
one of the insides of 'em would have been one button the worse, for all you had done to them. 
I believe in my conscience that mine is made up somewhat after this sort:- for never poor jerkin has been tickled off, at such a rate as it has been these last nine months together,-and yet I declare the lining to it,-as far as I am a judge of the matter, it is not a three-penny piece the worse;-pell mell, helter skelter, ding dong, cut and thrust, back stroke and fore stroke, side way and long way, have they been trimming it for me:-had there been the least gumminess in my lining,-by heaven! it had all of it long ago been fray'd and fretted to a thread. 
-You Messrs. the monthly Reviewers! 
[Page 16]
-how could you cut and slash my jerkin as you did?-how did you know, but you would cut my lining too? 
Heartily and from my soul, to the protection of that Being who will injure none of us, do I recommend you and your affairs, -so God bless you;-only next month, if any one of you should gnash his teeth, and storm and rage at me, as some of you did last May, (in which I remember the weather was very hot)- don't be exasperated, if I pass it by again with good temper,-being determined as long as I live or write (which in my case means the same thing) never to give the honest gentleman a worse word or a worse wish, than my uncle Toby gave the fly which buzz'd about his nose all dinner time,-"" quoth he, "" 
CHAP. V. 
Any man, madam, reasoning upwards, and observing the prodigious suffusion of blood in my father's countenance,-by means of which, (as all the blood in his body seemed to rush up into his face, as I told you) he must have redden'd, pictorically and scientintically speaking, six whole tints and a half, if not a full octave above his natural colour: -any man, madam, but my uncle Toby, who had observed this, together with the violent knitting of my father's brows, and the extravagant contortion of his body during the whole affair, -would have concluded my father in a rage; and taking that for granted,- 
[Page 18]
had he been a lover of such kind of concord as arises from two such instruments being put into exact tune,-he would instantly have skrew'd up his, to the same pitch;-and then the devil and all had broke loose-the whole piece, madam, must have been played off like the sixth of Avison Scarlatti-con furia,-like mad. -Grant me patience! -What has con furia,-con strepito,-or any other hurlyburly word whatever to do with harmony? 
Any man, I say, madam, but my uncle Toby, the benignity of whose heart interpreted every motion of the body in the kindest sense the motion would admit of, would have concluded my father angry and blamed him too. My uncle Toby blamed nothing but the taylor who cut the pocket-hole;-so sitting still, till 
[Page 19]
my father had got his handkerchief out of it, and looking all the time up in his face with inexpressible good will-my father at length went on as follows. 
CHAP. VI. 
-"" 
-Brother Toby, quoth my uncle, I do believe thee to be as honest a man, and with as good and as upright a heart as ever God created;-nor is it thy fault, if all the children which have been, may, can, shall, will or ought to be begotten, come with their heads foremost into the world:-but believe me, dear Toby, the accidents which unavoidably way-lay them, not only in the article of our begetting 'em,-though these in my opinion, 
[Page 20]
are well worth considering,-but the dangers and difficulties our children are beset with, after they are got forth into the world, are enow,-little need is there to expose them to unnecessary ones in their passage to it. -Are these dangers, quoth my uncle Toby, laying his hand upon my father's knee, and looking up seriously in his face for an answer,-are these dangers greater now o' days, brother, than in times past? Brother Toby, answered my father, if a child was but fairly begot, and born alive, and healthy, and the mother did well after it,--our forefathers never looked further. -My uncle Toby instantly withdrew his hand from off my father's knee, reclined his body gently back in his chair, raised his head till he could just see the cornish of the room, and then directing the buccinatory muscles along his cheeks, and the 
[Page 21]
orbicular muscles around his lips to do their duty-he whistled Lillabullero. 
CHAP. VII. 
Whilst my uncle Toby was whistling Lillabullero to my father,- Dr. Slop was stamping, and cursing and damning at Obadiah at a most dreadful rate;-it would have done your heart good, and cured you, Sir, for ever, of the vile sin of swearing to have heard him. -I am determined therefore to relate the whole affair to you. 
When Dr. Slop's maid delivered the green bays bag, with her master's instruments in it, to Obadiah, she very sensibly exhorted him to put his head and one arm through the strings, and ride with it slung across his body: so undoing the 
[Page 22]
bow-knot, to lengthen the strings for him, without any more ado, she helped him on with it. However, as this, in some measure, unguarded the mouth of the bag, lest any thing should bolt out in galloping back at the speed Obadiah threatened, they consulted to take it off again; and in the great care and caution of their hearts, they had taken the two strings and tied them close (pursing up the mouth of the bag first) with half a dozen hard knots, each of which, Obadiah, to make all safe, had twitched and drawn together with all the strength of his body. 
This answered all that Obadiah and the maid intended; but was no remedy against some evils which neither he or she foresaw. The instruments, it seems, as tight as the bag was tied above, had 
[Page 23]
so much room to play in it, towards the bottom, (the shape of the bag being conical) that Obadiah could not make a trot of it, but with such a terrible jingle, what with the tire-téte, forceps and squirt, as would have been enough, had Hymen been taking a jaunt that way, to have frightened him out of the country; but when Obadiah accelerated this motion, and from a plain trot assayed to prick his coach-horse into a full gallop-by heaven! Sir,-the jingle was incredible. 
As Obadiah had a wife and three children. -The turpitude of fornication, and the many other political ill consequences of this jingling, never once entered his brain,-he had however his objection, which came home to himself, and weighed with him, as it has oft-times done with 
[Page 24]
the greatest patriots. -"" 
CHAP. VIII. 
As Obadiah loved wind musick preferably to all the instrumental musick he carried with him,-he very considerately set his imagination to work, to contrive and to invent by what means he should put himself in a condition of enjoying it. 
In all distresses (except musical) where small cords are wanted,-nothing is so apt to enter a man's head, as his hat-band: -the philosophy of this is so near the surface-I scorn to enter into it. 
As Obadiah's was a mix'd case,- mark, Sirs,-I say, a mix'd case; for it 
[Page 25]
was obstretical,-scrip-tical,-squirtical, papistical,-and as far as the coach-horse was concerned in it,-caball-istical-and only partly musical;-Obadiah made no scruple of availing himself of the first expedient which offered;-so taking hold of the bag and instruments, and griping them hard together with one hand, and with the finger and thumb of the other, putting the end of the hat-band betwixt his teeth, and then slipping his hand down to the middle of it,-he tied and cross-tied them all fast together from one end to the other (as you would cord a trunk) with such a multiplicity of round-abouts and intricate cross turns, with a hard knot at every intersection or point where the strings met,-that Dr. Slop must have had three fifths of Job's patience at least to have unloosed them. -I think in my conscience, that had Nature been in one of 
[Page 26]
her nimble moods, and in humour for such a contest-and she and Dr. Slop both fairly started together-there is no man living who had seen the bag with all that Obadiah had done to it,-and known likewise, the great speed the goddess can make when she thinks proper, who would have had the least doubt remaining in his mind--which of the two would have carried off the prize. My mother, madam, had been delivered sooner than the green bag infallibly-at least by twenty knots. --Sport of small accidents, Tristram Shandy! that thou art, and ever will be! had that trial been made for thee, and it was fifty to one but it had,-thy affairs had not been so depress'd-(at least by the depression of thy nose) as they have been; nor had the fortunes of thy house and the occasions of making them, which have so often presented themselves in the 
[Page 27]
course of thy life, to thee, been so often, so vexatiously, so tamely, so irrecoverably abandoned-as thou hast been forced to leave them!-but 'tis over,-all but the account of 'em, which cannot be given to the curious till I am got out into the world. 
CHAP. IX. 
Great wits jump: for the moment Dr. Slop cast his eyes upon his bag (which he had not done till the dispute with my uncle Toby about midwifery put him in mind of it)-the very same thought occurred. -'Tis God's mercy, quoth he, (to himself) that Mrs. Shandy has had so bad a time of it,-else she might have been brought to bed seven times told, before one half of these knots could have got untied. -But 
[Page 28]
here, you must distinguish-the thought floated only in Dr. Slop's mind, without sail or ballast to it, as a simple proposition; millions of which, as your worship knows, are every day swiming quietly in the middle of the thin juice of a man's understanding, without being carried backwards or forwards, till some little gusts of passion or interest drive them to one side. 
A sudden trampling in the room above, near my mother's bed, did the proposition the very service I am speaking of. By all that's unfortunate, quoth Dr. Slop, unless I make haste, the thing will actually befall me as it is. 

[Page 29]

CHAP. X. 
In the case of knots,-by which, in the first place, I would not be understood to mean slip-knots,-because in the course of my life and opinions,- my opinions concerning them will come in more properly when I mention the catastrophe of my great uncle Mr. Hammond Shandy,-a little man,-but of high fancy:-he rushed into the duke of Monmouth's affair:-nor, secondly, in this place, do I mean that particular species of knots, called bow-knots;- there is so little address, or skill, or patience, required in the unloosing them, that they are below my giving any opinion at all about them. -But by the knots I am speaking of, may it please your reverences to believe, that I mean 
[Page 30]
good, honest, devilish tight, hard knots, made bona fide, as Obadiah made his;- in which there is no quibbling provision made by the duplication and return of the two ends of the strings through the annulus or noose made by the second implication of them-to get them slipp'd and undone by--I hope you apprehend me. 
In the case of these knots then, and of the several obstructions, which, may it please your reverences, such knots cast in our way in getting through life- every hasty man can whip out his penknife and cut through them. -'Tis wrong. Believe me, Sirs, the most virtuous way, and which both reason and conscience dictate-is to take our teeth or our fingers to them. -Dr. Slop had lost his teeth-his favourite instrument, 
[Page 31]
by extracting in a wrong direction, or by some misapplication of it, unfortunately slipping, he had formerly in a hard labour, knock'd out three of the best of them, with the handle of it:- he tried his fingers-alas! the nails of his fingers and thumbs were cut close. - The deuce take it! I can make nothing of it either way, cried Dr. Slop. -The trampling over head near my mother's bed side increased. -Pox take the fellow! I shall never get the knots untied as long as I live. -My mother gave a groan- Lend me your penknife-I must e'en cut the knots at last- - - - -pugh!- - -psha! - - -Lord! I have cut my thumb quite across to the very bone-curse the fellow -if there was not another man midwife within fifty miles-I am undone for this bout-I wish the scoundrel hang'd-I wish he was shot-I wish 
[Page 32]
all the devils in hell had him for a blockhead- 
My father had a great respect for Obadiah, and could not bear to hear him disposed of in such a manner-he had moreover some little respect for himself -and could as ill bear with the indignity offer'd to himself in it. 
Had Dr. Slop cut any part about him, but his thumb-my father had pass'd it by-his prudence had triumphed: as it was, he was determined to have his revenge. 
Small curses, Dr. Slop, upon great occasions, quoth my father, (condoling with him first upon the accident) are but so much waste of our strength and soul's health to no manner of purpose. -I own 
[Page 33]
it, replied Dr. Slop. -They are like sparrow shot, quoth my uncle Toby, (suspending his whistling) fired against a bastion. -They serve, continued my father, to stir the humours-but carry off none of their acrimony:-for my own part, I seldom swear or curse at all- I hold it bad-but if I fall into it, by surprize, I generally retain so much presence of mind (right, quoth my uncle Toby) as to make it answer my purpose- that is, I swear on, till I find myself easy. A wise and a just man however would always endeavour to proportion the vent given to these humours, not only to the degree of them stirring within himself- but to the size and ill intent of the offence upon which they are to fall. - ""-- quoth my uncle Toby. For this reason, continued my father, with the most Cervantick 
[Page 34]
gravity, I have the greatest veneration in the world for that gentleman, who, in distrust of his own discretion in this point, sat down and composed (that is at his leisure) fit forms of swearing suitable to all cases, from the lowest to the highest provocations which could possibly happen to him,-which forms being well consider'd by him, and such moreover as he could stand to, he kept them ever by him on the chimney piece, within his reach, ready for use. -I never apprehended, replied Dr. Slop, that such a thing was ever thought of,-- much less executed. I beg your pardon -answered my father; I was reading, though not using, one of them to my brother Toby this morning, whilst he pour'd out the tea-'tis here upon the shelf over my head;-but if I remember right, 'tis too violent for a cut of the 
[Page 35]
thumb. -Not at all, quoth Dr. Slop- the devil take the fellow. -Then answered my father, 'Tis much at your service, Dr. Slop-on condition you will read it aloud;-so rising up and reaching down a form of excommunication of the church of Rome, a copy of which, my father (who was curious in his collections) had procured out of the leger-book of the church of Rochester, writ by Ernulphus the bishop-with a most affected seriousness of look and voice, which might have cajoled Ernulphus himself,-he put it into Dr. Slop's hands. -Dr. Slop wrapt his thumb up in the corner of his handkerchief, and with a wry face, though without any suspicion, read aloud, as follows,-my uncle Toby whistling Lillabullero, as loud as he could, all the time. 

[Page 36]
Textus de Ecclesiâ Roffensi, per Ernulfum Episcopum.
CAP. XXV.
EXCOMMUNICATIO.
Ex auctoritate Dei omnipotentis, Patris, et Filij, et Spiritus Sancti, et sanctorum canonum, sanctæque et intemeratæ Virginis Dei genetricis Mariæ, 
----------
As the genuineness of the consultation of the Sorbonne upon the question of baptism, was doubted by some, and denied by others,-'twas thought proper to print the original of this excommunication; for the copy of which Mr. Shandy returns thanks to the chapter clerk of the dean and chapter of Rochester. 

[Page 38]
-Atque omnium cœlestium virtutum, angelorum, archangelorum, thronorum, dominationum, potestatuum, cherubin ac seraphin, & sanctorum patriarchum, prophetarum, & omnium apostolorum et evangelistarum, & sanctorum innocentum, qui in conspectu Agni soli 
[Page 40]
digni inventi sunt canticum cantare novum, et sanctorum martyrum, et sanctorum confessorum, et sanctarum virginum, atque omnium simul sanctorum et electorum Dei,-Excommunicamus, et anathematizamus hunc [vel os] furem [fures], vel hunc [vel os] malefactorem [malefactores], N. N. et a liminibus sanctæ Dei ecclesiæ sequestramus et æternis suppliciis excruciandus [vel excruciandis], mancipetur [mancipentur], cum Dathan et Abiram, et cum his qui dixerunt Domino Deo, Recede à nobis, scientiam viarum tuarum nolumus: et sicut aquâ ignis extinguitur, sic extinguatur lucerna ejus [vel. eorum] in secula seculorum nisi respuerit, et ad satisfactionem venerit [venerint]. Amen. 

[Page 42]
Maledicat illum [os] Deus Pater qui hominem creavit. Maledicat illum [os] Dei Filius qui pro homine passus est. Maledicat illum [os] Spiritus Sanctus qui in baptismo effusus est. Maledicat illum [os] sancta crux, quam Christus pro nostrâ salute hostem triumphans, ascendit. 
Maledicat illum [os] sancta Dei genetrix et perpetua Virgo Maria. Maledicat illum [os] sanctus Michael, animarum susceptor sacrarum. Maledicant illum [os] omnes angeli et archangeli, principatus et potestates, omnisque militia cœlestis. 

[Page 44]
Maledicat illum [os] patriarcharum et prophetarum laudabilis numerus. Maledicat illum [os] sanctus Johannes præcursor et Baptista Christi, et sanctus Petrus, et sanctus Paulus, atque sanctus Andreas, omnesque Christi apostoli, simul et cæteri discipuli, quatuor quoque evangelistæ, qui sua prædicatione mundum universum converterunt. Maledicat illum [os] cuneus martyrum et confessorum mirificus, qui Deo bonis operibus placitus inventus est. 
Maledicant illum [os] sacrarum virginum chori, quæ mundi vana causa honoris Christi respuenda contempserunt. Maledicant illum [os] omnes sancti qui ab initio mundi usque in finem seculi Deo dilecti inveniuntur. 

[Page 46]
Maledicant illum [os] cœli et terra, et omnia sancta in eis manentia. 
Maledictus sit [sint] ubicunque fuerit [fuerint], sive in domo, sive in agro, sive in viâ, sive in semitâ, sive in silvâ, sive in aquâ, sive in ecclesiâ. 
Maledictus sit vivendo, moriendo, --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- manducando, bibendo, esuriendo, sitiendo, jejunando, dormitando, dormiendo, vigilando, ambulando, stando, sedendo, 
[Page 48]
jacendo, operando, quiescendo, mingendo, cacando, flebotomando. 


Maledictus [Maledictis] sit [sint] in totis viribus corporis. 
Maledictus sit intus et exterius.
Maledictus sit in capillis; maledictus sit in cerebro. Maledictus sit in vertice, in temporibus, in fronte, in auriculis, in superciliis, in oculis, in genis, in maxillis, in naribus, in dentibus, mordacibus, in labris sive molibus, in labiis, in guttere, in humeris, in harnis, in brachiis, in manubus, in digitis, in pectore, in corde, 
[Page 50]
et in omnibus interioribus stomacho tenus, in renibus, in inguinibus, in femore, in genitalibus, in coxis, in genubus, in cruribus, in pedibus, et in unguibus. 
Maledictus sit in totis compagibus membrorum, a vertice capitis, usque ad plantam pedis-non sit in eo sanitas. 
Maledicat illum Christus Filius Dei vivi toto suæ majestatis imperio 
[Page ]

[Blank page]


[Page 54]
-et insurgat adversus illum cœlum cum omnibus virtutibus quæ in eo moventur ad damnandum eum, nisi penituerit et ad satisfactionem venerit. Amen. Fiat, fiat. Amen. 

[Page 37]

CHAP. XI. 
"" I think there is no necessity, quoth Dr. Slop, dropping the paper down to his knee, and addressing himself to my father,-as you have read it over, Sir, so lately, to read it aloud;- and as Captain Shandy seems to have no great inclination to hear it,-I may as well read it to myself. That's contrary to treaty, replied my father,-besides, there is something so whimsical, especially in the latter part of it, I should grieve to lose the pleasure of a second reading. Dr. Slop did not altogether like it,-but my uncle Toby offering at that instant to give 
[Page 39]
over whistling, and read it himself to them;-Dr. Slop thought he might as well read it under the cover of my uncle Toby's whistling,-as suffer my uncle Toby to read it alone;-so raising up the paper to his face, and holding it quite parallel to it, in order to hide his chagrin,- he read it aloud as follows,-my uncle Toby whistling Lillabullero, though not quite so loud as before. 
"" (Obadiah) "" (for tying these knots.) -"" (Obadiah, of the knots which he has tied) "" (for them.) Amen. 

[Page 43]
""May the holy and eternal Virgin Mary, mother of God, curse him. - May St. Michael the advocate of holy souls, curse him. -May all the angels and archangels, principalities and powers, and all the heavenly armies, curse him.""May St. John the præ-cursor, and St. John the Baptist, and St. Peter and St. Paul, and St. Andrew, and all other Christ's apostles, together curse him. And may the rest of his disciples and four evangelists, who by their preaching converted the universal world,-and may the holy and wonderful company of martyrs and confessors, who by their holy works are found pleasing to God Almighty, curse him (Obadiah.) 
"" (Obadiah) "" (or whoever else had a hand in tying these knots.) 
"" [Here my uncle Toby taking the advantage of a minim in the second barr of his tune, kept whistling one continual note to the end of the sentence-Dr. Slop with his division of curses moving under him, like a running bass all the way.] "" 
""May he be cursed inwardly and outwardly. -May he be cursed in the hair of his head. -May he be cursed in his brains, and in his vertex,""in his temples, in his forehead, in his ears, in his eye-brows, in his cheeks, in his jaw-bones, in his nostrils, in his foreteeth and grinders, in his lips, in his throat, in his shoulders, in his wrists, in his arms, in his hands, in his fingers. 
""May he be cursed in his reins, and in his groin,""in his thighs, in his genitals,""and in his hips, and in his knees, his legs, and feet, and toe-nails. 
""May the Son of the living God, with all the glory of his Majesty""Curse him,""and may heaven with all the powers which move therein, rise up against him, curse and damn him (Obadiah) unless he repent . Amen. So be it, -so be it. Amen.""G---d damn you.""God Almighty the Father damn you,-God the Son damn you,-God the Holy Ghost damn you,""Good God!""are children brought into the world with a squirt?""he knew not how it happen'd,""I know not how it happens, -cried my father,-"" 
-'Tis owing, entirely, quoth my uncle Toby, to the succession of our ideas. 
My father, who had an itch in common with all philosophers, of reasoning upon every thing which happened, and accounting for it too,-proposed infinite pleasure to himself in this, of the succession of ideas, and had not the least apprehension 
[Page 77]
of having it snatch'd out of his hands by my uncle Toby, who (honest man!) generally took every thing as it happened;-and who, of all men in the world, troubled his brain the least with abstruse thinking;-the ideas of time and space,-or how we came by those ideas,-or of what stuff they were made,-or whether they were born with us,-or we pick'd them up afterwards as we went along,-or whether we did it in frocks,-or not till we had got into breeches,-with a thousand other inquiries and disputes about INFINITY, PRESCIENCE, LIBERTY, NECESSITY, and so forth, upon whose desperate and unconquerable theories, so many fine heads have been turned and crack'd,-never did my uncle Toby's the least injury at all; my father knew it, -and was no less surprised, than he 
[Page 78]
was disappointed with my uncle's fortuitous solution. 
Do you understand the theory of that affair? replied my father. 
Not I, quoth my uncle. 
-But you have some ideas, said my father, of what you talk about.- 
No more than my horse, replied my uncle Toby. 
Gracious heaven! cried my father, looking upwards, and clasping his two hands together,-there is a worth in thy honest ignorance, brother Toby,-'twere almost a pity to exchange it for a knowledge. -But I'll tell thee.- 

[Page 79]
To understand what time is aright, without which we never can comprehend infinity, insomuch as one is a portion of the other,-we ought seriously to sit down and consider what idea it is, we have of duration, so as to give a satisfactory account, how we came by it. -What is that to any body? quoth my uncle Toby. * 6 For if you will turn your eyes inwards upon your mind, continued my father, and observe attentively, you will perceive, brother, that whilst you and I are talking together, and thinking and smoaking our pipes: or whilst we receive successively ideas in our minds, we know that we do exist, and so we estimate the existence, or the continuation of the existence of ourselves, or any thing else commensurate to the succession of any ideas in our minds, the duration of ourselves, or any such other thing co existing with our 
[Page 80]
thinking,-and so according to that preconceived-You puzzle me to death, cried my uncle Toby.- 
-'Tis owing to this, replied my father, that in our computations of time, we are so used to minutes, hours, weeks, and months,--and of clocks (I wish there was not a clock in the kingdom) to measure out their several portions to us, and to those who belong to us,--that 'twill be well, if in time to come, the succession of our ideas be of any use or service to us at all. 
Now, whether we observe it or no, continued my father, in every sound man's head, there is a regular succession of ideas of one sort or other, which follow each other in train just like-A train of artillery? said my uncle Toby. -A train 
[Page 81]
of a fiddle stick!-quoth my father,- which follow and succeed one another in our minds at certain distances, just like the images in the inside of a lanthorn turned round by the heat of a candle. - I declare, quoth my uncle Toby, mine are like a smoak-jack. -Then, brother Toby, I have nothing more to say to you upon the subject, said my father. 
CHAP. XIX. 
-What a conjuncture was here lost! -My father in one of his best explanatory moods,- in eager pursuit of a metaphysic point into the very regions where clouds and thick darkness would soon have encompassed it about;-my uncle Toby in one of the finest dispositions for it in the world;-his head like a smoak-jack; -the funnel unswept, and the ideas 
[Page 82]
whirling round and round about in it, all obfuscated and darkened over with fuliginous matter! -By the tomb stone of Lucian-if it is in being,-if not, why then, by his ashes! by the ashes of my dear Rabelais, and dearer Cervantes, -my father and my uncle Toby's discourse upon TIME and ETERNITY,-was a discourse devoutly to be wished for! and the petulancy of my father's humour in putting a stop to it, as he did, was a robbery of the Ontologic treasury, of such a jewel, as no coalition of great occasions and great men, are ever likely to restore to it again. 
CHAP. XX. 
Tho' my father persisted in not going on with the discourse,-yet he could not get my uncle Toby's smoak-jack 
[Page 83]
out of his head,-piqued as he was at first with it;-there was something in the comparison at the bottom, which hit his fancy; for which purpose resting his elbow upon the table, and reclining the right side of his head upon the palm of his hand,-but looking first stedfastly in the fire,-he began to commune with himself and philosophize about it: but his spirits being wore out with the fatigues of investigating new tracts, and the constant exertion of his faculties upon that variety of subjects which had taken their turn in the discourse,-the idea of the smoak-jack soon turned all his ideas upside down,-so that he fell asleep almost before he knew what he was about. 
As for my uncle Toby, his smoak-jack had not made a dozen revolutions, before 
[Page 84]
he fell asleep also. -Peace be with them both. -Dr. Slop is engaged with the midwife, and my mother above stairs. - Trim is busy in turning an old pair of jack-boots into a couple of mortars to be employed in the siege of Messina next summer, -and is this instant boring the touch holes with the point of a hot poker. -All my heroes are off my hands;-'tis the first time I have had a moment to spare,-and I'll make use of it, and write my preface. 

[Page 85]

THE Author's PREFACE. 
No, I'll not say a word about it,- here it is;-in publishing it,- I have appealed to the world,-and to the world I leave it;-it must speak for itself. 
All I know of the matter is,-when I sat down, my intent was to write a good book; and as far as the tenuity of my understanding would hold out,-a wise, aye, and a discreet,-taking care only, as I went along, to put into it all the wit and the judgment (be it more or less) which the great author and bestower of them had thought fit originally to give 
[Page 86]
me,-so that, as your worships see,- 'tis just as God pleases. 
Now, Agalastes (speaking dispraisingly) sayeth, That there may be some wit in it, for aught he knows,-but no judgment at all. And Triptolemus and Phutatorius agreeing thereto, ask, How is it possible there should? for that wit and judgment in this world never go together; inasmuch as they are two operations differing from each other as wide as east is from west. -So, says Locke,-so are farting and hickuping, say I. But in answer to this, Didius the great church lawyer, in his code de fartandi et illustrandi fallaciis, doth maintain and make fully appear, That an illustration is no argument, -nor do I maintain the wiping of a looking-glass clean, to be a syllogism; -but you all, may it please your worships, 
[Page 87]
see the better for it,-so that the main good these things do, is only to clarify the understanding, previous to the application of the argument itself, in order to free it from any little motes, or specks of opacular matter, which if left swiming therein, might hinder a conception and spoil all. 
Now, my dear Anti-Shandeans, and thrice able critics, and fellow-labourers, (for to you I write this Preface)-and to you, most subtle statesman and discreet doctors (do-pull off your beards) renowned for gravity and wisdom;- Monopolos my politician,-Didius, my counsel; Kysarcius, my friend;-Phutatorius, my guide;-Gastripheres, the preserver of my life; Somnolentius, the balm and repose of it,-not forgetting all others as well sleeping as waking,-ecclesiastical as civil, whom for brevity, but out of no 
[Page 88]
resentment to you, I lump all together. -Believe me, right worthy, 
My most zealous wish and fervent prayer in your behalf, and in my own too, in case the thing is not done already for us,-is, that the great gifts and endowments both of wit and judgment, with every thing which usually goes along with them,-such as memory, fancy, genius, eloquence, quick parts, and what not, may this precious moment without stint or measure, let or hinderance, be poured down warm as each of us could bear it,-scum and sediment an' all; (for I would not have a drop lost) into these veral receptacles, cells, cellules, domiciles, dormitories, refectories, and spare places of our brains,-in such sort, that they might continue to be injected and tunn'd into, according to the true 
[Page 89]
intent and meaning of my wish, until every vessel of them, both great and small, be so replenished, saturated and fill'd up therewith, that no more, would it save a man's life, could possibly be got either in or out. 
Bless us!-what noble work we should make!-how should I tickle it off! -and what spirits should I find myself in, to be writing away for such readers! -and you,-just heaven!-with what raptures would you sit and read,-but oh!-'tis too much,-I am sick,- I faint away deliciously at the thoughts of it!-'tis more than nature can bear! -lay hold of me,-I am giddy,-I am stone blind,-I'm dying,-I am gone. -Help! Help! Help! -But hold,-I grow something better again, for I am beginning to foresee, when this is over that as we shall all of us continue 
[Page 90]
to be great wits,-we should never agree amongst ourselves, one day to an end:-there would be so much satire and sarcasm,-scoffing and flouting, with raillying and reparteeing of it,- thrusting and parrying in one corner or another,-there would be nothing but mischief amongst us. -Chaste stars! what biting and scratching, and what a racket and a clatter we should make, what with breaking of heads, and rapping of knuckles, and hitting of sore places,- there would be no such thing as living for us. 
But then again, as we should all of us be men of great judgment, we should make up matters as fast as ever they went wrong; and though we should abominate each other, ten times worse than so many devils or devilesses, we should nevertheless, my dear creatures, be all courtesy 
[Page 91]
and kindness,--milk and honey,- 'twould be a second land of promise,-- a paradise upon earth, if there was such a thing to be had,-so that upon the whole we should have done well enough. 
All I fret and fume at, and what most distresses my invention at present, is how to bring the point itself to bear; for as your worships well know, that of these heavenly emanations of wit and judgment, which I have so bountifully wished both for your worships and myself,-there is but a certain quantum stored up for us all, for the use and behoof of the whole race of mankind; and such small modicums of 'em are only sent forth into this wide world, circulating here and there in one by corner or another,-and in such narrow streams, and at such prodigious intervals from each other, that one would 
[Page 92]
wonder how it holds out, or could be sufficient for the wants and emergencies of so many great states, and populous empires. 
Indeed there is one thing to be considered, that in Nova Zembla, North Lapland, and in all those cold and dreary tracts of the globe, which lie more directly under the artick and antartick circles, -where the whole province of a man's concernments lies for near nine months together, within the narrow compass of his cave,--where the spirits are compressed almost to nothing,--and where the passions of a man, with every thing which belongs to them, are as frigid as the zone itself;-there the least quantity of judgment imaginable does the business, -and of wit,-there is a total and an absolute saving,-for as not one spark 
[Page 93]
is wanted,-so not one spark is given. Angels and ministers of grace defend us! What a dismal thing would it have been to have governed a kingdom, to have fought a battle, or made a treaty, or run a match, or wrote a book, or got a child, or held a provincial chapter there, with so plentiful a lack of wit and judgment about us! for mercy's sake! let us think no more about it, but travel on as fast as we can southwards into Norway,--crossing over Swedeland, if you please, through the small triangular province of Angermania to the lake of Bothnia; coasting along it through east and west Bothnia, down to Carelia, and so on, through all those states and provinces which border upon the far side of the Gulf of Finland, and the north east of the Baltick, up to Petersbourg, and just stepping into Ingria;-then stretching over directly from thence 
[Page 94]
through the north parts of the Russian empire-leaving Siberia a little upon the left hand till we get into the very heart of Russian and Asiatick Tartary. 
Now throughout this long tour which I have led you, you observe the good people are better off by far, than in the polar countries which we have just left: -for if you hold your hand over your eyes, and look very attentively, your may perceive some small glimmerings (as it were) of wit, with a comfortable provision of good plain houshold judgment, which taking the quality and quantity of it together, they make a very good shift with,-and had they more of either the one or the other, it would destroy the proper ballance betwixt them, and I am satisfied moreover they would want occasions to put them to use. 

[Page 95]
Now, Sir, if I conduct you home again into this warmer and more luxuriant island, where you perceive the spring tide of our blood and humours runs high, -where we have more ambition, and pride, and envy, and lechery, and other whoreson passions upon our hands to govern and subject to reason,-the height of our wit and the depth of our judgment, you see, are exactly proportioned to the length and breadth of our necessities,-and accordingly, we have them sent down amongst us in such a flowing kind of decent and creditable plenty, that no one thinks he has any cause to complain. 
It must however be confessed on this head, that, as our air blows hot and cold, -wet and dry, ten times in a day, we have them in no regular and settled way; -so that sometimes for near half a 
[Page 96]
century together, there shall be very little wit or judgment, either to be seen or heard of amongst us:-the small channels of them shall seem quite dried up,- then all of a sudden the sluices shall break out, and take a fit of running again like fury,-you would think they would never stop:-and then it is, that in writing and fighting, and twenty other gallant things, we drive all the world before us. 
It is by these observations, and a wary reasoning by analogy in that kind of argumentative process, which Suidas calls dialectick induction,-that I draw and set up this position as most true and veritable. 
That of these two luminaries, so much of their irradiations are suffered from 
[Page 97]
time to time to shine down upon us; as he, whose infinite wisdom which dispenses every thing in exact weight and measure, knows will just serve to light us on our way in this night of our obscurity; so that your reverences and worships now find out, nor is it a moment longer in my power to conceal it from you, That the fervent wish in your behalf with which I set out, was no more than the first insinuating How d'ye of a caressing prefacer stifling his reader, as a lover sometimes does a coy mistress into silence. For alas! could this effusion of light have been as easily procured, as the exordium wished it-I tremble to think how many thousands for it, of benighted travellers (in the learned sciences at least) must have groped and blundered on in the dark, all the nights of their lives,-running their heads against posts, and knocking out 
[Page 98]
their brains without ever getting to their journies end;-some falling with their noses perpendicularly into stinks,-others horizontally with their tails into kennels. Here one half of a learned profession tilting full butt against the other half of it, and then tumbling and rolling one over the other in the dirt like hogs. -Here the brethren, of another profession, who should have run in opposition to each other, flying on the contrary like a flock of wild geese, all in a row the same way. -What confusion!-what mistakes! -fiddlers and painters judging by their eyes and ears,-admirable!-trusting to the passions excited in an air sung, or a story painted to the heart,-instead of measuring them by a quadrant. 
In the foreground of this picture, a statesman turning the political wheel, like 
[Page 99]
a brute, the wrong way round-against the stream of corruption,-by heaven!- instead of with it. 
In this corner, a son of the divine Esculapius, writing a book against pre-destination; perhaps worse,-feeling his patient's pulse, instead of his apothecary's -a brother of the faculty in the back ground upon his knees in tears,-drawing the curtains of a mangled victim to beg his forgiveness;-offering a fee,-instead of taking one. 
In that spacious HALL, a coalition of the gown, from all the barrs of it, driving a a damn'd, dirty, vexatious cause before them, with all their might and main, the the wrong way;-kicking it out of the great doors, instead of, in,-and with such fury in their looks, and such a degree 
[Page 100]
of inveteracy in their manner of kicking it, as if the laws had been originally made for the peace and preservation of mankind:-perhaps a more enormous mistake committed by them still,-a litigated point fairly hung up;--for instance, Whether John o'Nokes his nose, could stand in Tom o'Stiles his face, without a trespass, or not,-rashly determined by them in five and twenty minutes, which, with the cautious pro's and con's required in so intricate a proceeding, might have taken up as many months,- and if carried on upon a military plan, as your honours know, an ACTION should be, with all the stratagems practicable therein, -such as feints,-forced marches,- surprizes,-ambuscades,-mask-batteries, and a thousand other strokes of generalship which consist in catechising at all advantages on both sides,-might 
[Page 101]
reasonably have lasted them as many years, finding food and raiment all that term for a centumvirate of the profession. 
As for the clergy--No-If I say a word against them, I'll be shot. - I have no desire,-and besides, if I had, -I durst not for my soul touch upon the subject,-with such weak nerves and spirits, and in the condition I am in at present, 'twould be as much as my life was worth, to deject and contrist myself with so sad and melancholy an account, -and therefore, 'tis safer to draw a curtain across, and hasten from it, as fast as I can, to the main and principal point I have undertaken to clear up,- and that is, How it comes to pass, that your men of least wit are reported to be men of most judgment. -But mark,- 
[Page 102]
I say, reported to be,-for it is no more, my dear Sirs, than a report, and which like twenty others taken up every day upon trust, I maintain to be a vile and a malicious report into the bargain. 
This by the help of the observations already premised, and I hope already weighed and perpended by your reverences and worships, I shall forthwith make appear. 
I hate set dessertations,-and above all things in the world, 'tis one of the silliest things in one of them, to darken your hypothesis by placing a number of tall, opake words, one before another, in a right line, betwixt your own and your readers conception,-when in all likelihood, if you had looked about you, 
[Page 103]
might have seen something standing, or hanging up, which would have cleared the point at once,-"" -I am this moment sitting upon one. Will you give me leave to illustrate this affair of wit and judgment, by the two knobs on the top of the back of it,- they are fasten'd on, you see, with two pegs stuck slightly into two gimlet-holes, and will place what I have to say in so clear a light, as to let you see through the drift and meaning of my whole preface, as plainly as if every point and particle of it was made up of sun beams. 

[Page 104]
I enter now directly upon the point. 
-Here stands wit,-and there stands judgment, close beside it, just like the two knobbs I'm speaking of, upon the back of this self same chair on which I am sitting. 
-You see, they are the highest and most ornamental parts of its frame,-as wit and judgment are of ours,-and like them too, indubitably both made and fitted to go together, in order as we say in all such cases of duplicated embellishments, -to answer one another. 
Now for the sake of an experiment, and for the clearer illustrating this matter,- let us for a moment, take off one of these two curious ornaments (I care not which) from the point or pinacle of the chair it 
[Page 105]
now stands on;-nay, don't laugh at it. -But did you ever see in the whole course of your lives such a ridiculous business as this has made of it? -Why, 'tis as miserable a sight as a sow with one ear; and there is just as much sense and symmetry in the one, as in the other:- do,-pray, get off your seats, only to take a view of it. -Now would any man who valued his character a straw, have turned a piece of work out of his hand in such a condition?--nay, lay your hands upon your hearts, and answer this plain question, Whether this one single knobb which now stands here like a blockhead by itself, can serve any purpose upon earth, but to put one in mind of the want of the other;-and let me further ask, in case the chair was your own, if you would not in your consciences think, rather than be as it is, that 
[Page 106]
it would be ten times better without any knobb at all. 
Now these two knobs-or top ornaments of the mind of man, which crown the whole entablature,-being, as I said, wit and judgment, which of all others, as I have proved it, are the most needful,- the most priz'd,-the most calamitous to be without, and consequently the hardest to come at,-for all these reasons put together, there is not a mortal amongst us, so destitute of a love of good fame or feeding,--or so ignorant of what will do him good therein,-who does not wish and stedfastly resolve in his own mind, to be, or to be thought at least master of the one or the other, and indeed of both of them, if the thing seems any way feasible, or likely to be brought to pass. 

[Page 107]
Now your graver gentry having little or no kind of chance in aiming at the one,-unless they laid hold of the other, -pray what do you think would become of them? -Why, Sirs, in spight of all their gravities, they must e'en have been contented to have gone with their insides naked:-this was not to be borne, but by an effort of philosophy not to be supposed in the case we are upon,-so that no one could well have been angry with them, had they been satisfied with what little they could have snatched up and secreted under their cloaks and great perrywigs, had they not raised a hue and cry at the same time against the lawful owners. 
I need not tell your worships, that this was done with so much cunning and artifice, -that the great Locke, who was seldom 
[Page 108]
outwitted by false sounds,-was nevertheless bubbled here. The cry, it seems, was so deep and solemn a one, and what with the help of great wigs, grave faces, and other implements of deceit, was rendered so general a one against the poor wits in this matter, that the philosopher himself was deceived by it,-it was his glory to free the world from the lumber of a thousand vulgar errors;- but this was not of the number; so that instead of sitting down cooly, as such a philosopher should have done, to have examined the matter of fact before he philosophised upon it;-on the contrary, he took the fact for granted, and so joined in with the cry, and halloo'd it as boisterously as the rest. 
This has been made the Magna Charta of stupidity ever since,-but your reverences 
[Page 109]
plainly see, it has been obtained in such a manner, that the title to it is not worth a groat;-which by the bye is one of the many and vile impositions which gravity and grave folks have to answer for hereafter. 
As for great wigs, upon which I may be thought to have spoken my mind too freely,-I beg leave to qualify whatever has been unguardedly said to their dispraise or prejudice, by one general declaration -That I have no abhorrence whatever, nor do I detest and abjure either great wigs or long beards,-any further than when I see they are bespoke and let grow on purpose to carry on this self-same imposture-for any purpose,-peace be with them;- ? mark only,-I write not for them. 

[Page 110]

CHAP. XXI. 
Every day for at least ten years together did my father resolve to have it mended,-'tis not mended yet;- no family but ours would have borne with it an hour,-and what is most astonishing, there was not a subject in the world upon which my father was so elegant, as upon that of door-hinges. - And yet at the same time, he was certainly one of the greatest bubbles to them, I think, that history can produce: his rhetoric and conduct were at perpetual handy-cuffs. -Never did the parlour-door open-but his philosophy or his principles fell a victim to it;-three drops of oyl with a feather, and a smart stroke of a hammer, had saved his honour for ever. 

[Page 111]
-Inconsistent soul that man is!- languishing under wounds, which he has the power to heal!-his whole life a contradiction to his knowledge!-his reason, that precious gift of God to him-(instead of pouring in oyl) serving but to sharpen his sensibilities,-to multiply his pains and render him more melancholy and uneasy under them!-poor unhappy creature, that he should do so!-are not the necessary causes of misery in this life enow, but he must add voluntary ones to his stock of sorrow;-struggle against evils which cannot be avoided, and submit to others, which a tenth part of the trouble they create him, would remove from his heart for ever? 
By all that is good and virtuous! if there are three drops of oyl to be got, and a hammer to be found within ten miles 
[Page 112]
of Shandy-Hall,-the parlour-door hinge shall be mended this reign. 
CHAP. XXII. 
When corporal Trim had brought his two mortars to bear, he was delighted with his handy-work above measure; and knowing what a pleasure it would be to his master to see them, he was not able to resist the desire he had of carrying them directly into his parlour. 
Now next to the moral lesson I had in view in mentioning the affair of hinges, I had a speculative consideration arising out of it, and it is this. 
Had the parlour-door open'd and turn'd upon its hinges, as a door should do-- 

[Page 113]
-Or for example, as cleverly as our government has been turning upon its hinges,-(that is, in case things have all along gone well with your worship,- otherwise I give up my simile)-in this case, I say, there had been no danger either to master or man, in corporal Trim's peeping in: the moment, he had beheld my father and my uncle Toby fast asleep, -the respectfulness of his carriage was such, he would have retired as silent as death, and left them both in their arm-chairs, dreaming as happy as he had found them: but the thing was morally speaking so very impracticable, that for the many years in which this hinge was suffered to be out of order, and amongst the hourly grievances my father submitted to upon its account,-this was one; that he never folded his arms to take his nap after dinner, but the thoughts of being 
[Page 114]
unavoidably awakened by the first person who should open the door, was always uppermost in his imagination, and so incessantly step'd in betwixt him and the first balmy presage of his repose, as to rob him, as he often declared, of the whole sweets of it. 
"" 
Pray what's the matter? Who is there? cried my father, waking, the moment the door began to creak. -I wish the smith would give a peep at that confounded hinge. -'Tis nothing, an' please your honour, said Trim, but two mortars I am bringing in. -They shan't make a clatter with them here, cried my father hastily. -If Dr. Slop has any 
[Page 115]
drugs to pound, let him do it in the kitchen. -May it please your honour, cried Trim,-they are two mortar-pieces for a siege next summer, which I have been making out of a pair of jack-boots, which Obadiah told me your honour had left off wearing. -By heaven! cried my father, springing out of his chair, as he swore,-I have not one appointment belonging to me, which I set so much store by, as I do by these jack-boots, -they were our great-grandfather's, brother Toby,-they were hereditary. Then I fear, quoth my uncle Toby, Trim has cut off the entail. -I have only cut off the tops, an' please your honour, cried Trim. -I hate perpetuities as much as any man alive, cried my father, -but these jack-boots, continued he, (smiling, though very angry at the same time) have been in the family, brother, 
[Page 116]
ever since the civil wars;-Sir Roger Shandy wore them at the battle of Marston-Moor. -I declare I would not have taken ten pounds for them. -I'll pay you the money, brother Shandy, quoth my uncle Toby, looking at the two mortars with infinite pleasure, and putting his hand into his breeches-pocket, as he viewed them. -I'll pay you the ten pounds this moment with all my heart and soul.- 
Brother Toby, replied my father, altering his tone, you care not what money you dissipate and throw away, provided, continued he, 'tis but upon a SIEGE. - Have I not a hundred and twenty pounds a year, besides my half-pay? cried my uncle Toby. -What is that, replied my father, hastily,-to ten pounds for a pair of jack-boots?-twelve guineas for your pontoons;-half as much for 
[Page 117]
your Dutch-draw-bridge;-to say nothing ofthe train of little brass-artillery you bespoke last week, with twenty other preparations for the siege of Messina; believe me, dear brother Toby, continued my father, taking him kindly by the hand,-these military operations of yours are above your strength;-you mean well, brother,-but they carry you into greater expences than you were fitst aware of,-and take my word,-dear Toby, they will in the end quite ruin your fortune, and make a beggar of you. -What signifies it if they do, brother, replied my uncle Toby, so long as we know 'tis for the good of the nation.- 
My father could not help smiling for his soul;-his anger at the worst was never more than a spark,-and the zeal and simplicity of Trim,-and the generous 
[Page 118]
(tho' hobby-horsical) gallantry of my uncle Toby, brought him into perfect good humour with them in an instant. 
Generous souls! -God prosper you both, and your mortar-pieces too, quoth my father to himself. 
CHAP. XXIII. 
All is quiet and hush, cried my father, at least above stairs,-I hear not one foot stirring. -Prithee, Trim, who is in the kitchen? There is no one soul in the kitchen, answered Trim, making a low bow as he spoke, except Dr. Slop. -Confusion! cried my father, (getting up upon his legs a second time) --not one single thing has gone right this day! had I faith in astrology, brother, (which by the bye, my father had) 
[Page 119]
I would have sworn some retrograde planet was hanging over this unfortunate house of mine, and turning every individual thing in it out of its place. - Why, I thought Dr. Slop had been above stairs with my wife, and so said you. - What can the fellow be puzzling about in the kitchen? -He is busy, an' please your honour, replied Trim, in making a bridge. -'Tis very obliging in him, quoth my uncle Toby;-pray give my humble service to Dr. Slop, Trim, and tell him I thank him heartily. 
You must know, my uncle Toby mistook the bridge as widely as my father mistook the mortars;-but to understand how my uncle Toby could mistake the bridge,-I fear I must give you an exact account of the road which led to it;-or to drop my metaphor, (for 
[Page 120]
there is nothing more dishonest in an historian, than the use of one,)-in order to conceive the probability of this error in my uncle Toby aright, I must give you some account of an adventure of Trim's, though much against my will. I say much against my will, only because the story, in one sense, is certainly out of its place here; for by right it should come in, either amongst the anecdotes of my uncle Toby's amours with widow Wadman, in which corporal Trim was no mean actor,-or else in the middle of his and my uncle Toby's campaigns on the bowling green,-for it will do very well in either place;-but then if I reserve it for either of those parts of my story,-I ruin the story I'm upon,-and if I tell it here-I anticipate matters, and ruin it there. 

[Page 121]
-What would your worships have me to do in this case? 
-Tell it, Mr. Shandy, by all means. -You are a fool, Tristram, if you do. 
O ye Powers! (for powers ye are, and great ones too)-which enable mortal man to tell a story worth the hearing, -that kindly shew him, where he is to begin it,-and where he is to end it,- what he is to put into it,-and what he is to leave out,-how much of it he is to cast into shade,-and whereabouts he is to throw his light! -Ye, who preside over this vast empire of biographical free-booters, and see how many scrapes and plunges your subjects hourly fall into;- will you do one thing? 
I beg and beseech you, (in case you 
[Page 122]
will do nothing better for us) that where-ever, in any part of your dominions it so falls out, that three several roads meet in one point, as they have done just here,- that at least you set up a guide-post, in the center of them, in mere charity to direct an uncertain devil, which of the three he is to take. 
CHAP. XXIV. 
Tho' the shock my uncle Toby received the year after the demolition of Dunkirk, in his affair with widow Wadman, had fixed him in a resolution, never more to think of the sex,-or of aught which belonged to it;-yet corporal Trim had made no such bargain with himself. Indeed in my uncle Toby's case there was a strange and unaccountable concurrence of circumstances which insensibly 
[Page 123]
drew him in, to lay siege to that fair and strong citadel. -In Trim's case there was a concurrence of nothing in the world, but of him and Bridget in the kitchen;-though in truth, the love and veneration he bore his master was such, and so fond was he of imitating him in all he did, that had my uncle Toby employed his time and genius in tagging of points,-I am persuaded the honest corporal would laid down his arms, and followed his example with pleasure. When therefore my uncle Toby sat down before the mistress,-corporal Trim incontinently took ground before the maid. 
Now, my dear friend Garrick, whom I have so much cause to esteem and honour, -(why, or wherefore, 'tis no matter) -can it escape your penetration,-I defy it,-that so many play-wrights, and 
[Page 124]
opificers of chit chat have ever since been working upon Trim's and my uncle Toby's pattern. -I care not what Aristotle, or Pacuvius, or Bossu, or Ricaboni say,- (though I never read one of them)- there is not a greater difference between a single-horse chair and madam Pompadour's vis a vis, than betwixt a single amour, and an amour thus nobly doubled, and going upon all four, prancing throughout a grand drama. -Sir, a simple, single, silly affair of that kind,- is quite lost in five acts,-but that is neither here or there. 
After a series of attacks and repulses in a course of nine months on my uncle Toby's quarter, a most minute account of every particular of which shall be given in its proper place, my uncle Toby, honest man! found it necessary to draw off 
[Page 125]
his forces, and raise the siege somewhat indignantly. 
Corporal Trim, as I said, had made no such bargain either with himself-or with any one else,-the fidelity however of his heart not suffering him to go into a house which his master had forsaken with disgust,-he contented himself with turning his part of the siege into a blockade; -that is, he kept others off,- for though he never after went to the house, yet he never met Bridget in the village, but he would either nod or wink, or smile, or look kindly at her,-or (as circumstances directed), he would shake her by the hand,-or ask her lovingly how she did,-or would give her a ribban, -and now and then, though never but when it could be done with decorum, would give Bridget a --- 

[Page 126]
Precisely in this situation, did these things stand for five years; that is, from the demolition of Dunkirk in the year 13, to the latter end of my uncle Toby's campaign in the year 18, which was about six or seven weeks before the time I'm speaking of. -When Trim, as his custom was, after he had put my uncle Toby to bed, going down one moon-shiny night to see that every thing was right at his fortifications, -in the lane separated from the bowling-green with flowering shrubs and holly,-he espied his Bridget. 
As the corporal thought there was nothing in the world so well worth shewing as the glorious works which he and my uncle Toby had made, Trim courteously and gallantly took her by the hand, and led her in: this was not done so privately, but that the foul-mouth'd trumpet of 
[Page 127]
Fame carried it from ear to ear, till at length it reached my father's, with this untoward circumstance along with it, that my uncle Toby's curious draw-bridge, constructed and painted after the Dutch fashion, and which went quite across the ditch,-was broke down, and some how or other crush'd all to pieces that very night. 
My father, as you have observed, had no great esteem for my uncle Toby's hobby-horse,-he thought it the most ridiculous horse that ever gentleman mounted, and indeed unless my uncle Toby vexed him about it, could never think of it once, without smiling at it,-so that it never could get lame or happen any mischance, but it tickled my father's imagination beyond measure; but this being an accident much more to his humour 
[Page 128]
than any one which had yet befall'n it, it proved an inexhaustible fund of entertainment to him. -Well,-but dear Toby! my father would say, do tell us seriously how this affair of the bridge happened. -How can you teaze me so much about it? my uncle Toby would reply,-I have told it you twenty times, word for word as Trim told it me. -Prithee, how was it then, corporal? my father would cry, turning to Trim. -It was a mere misfortune, an' please your honour, --I was shewing Mrs. Bridget our fortifications, and in going too near the edge of the fosse, I unfortunately slip'd in. -Very well Trim! my father would cry,-(smiling mysteriously, and giving a nod,-but without interrupting him)--and being link'd fast, an' please your honour, arm in arm with Mrs. Bridget, I dragg'd her after 
[Page 129]
me, by means of which she fell backwards soss against the bridge,-and Trim's foot, (my uncle Toby would cry, taking the story out of his mouth) getting into the cuvette, he tumbled full against the bridge too. -It was a thousand to one, my uncle Toby would add, that the poor fellow did not break his leg. -Ay truly! my father would say,-a limb is soon broke, brother Toby, in such encounters. -And so, an' please your honour, the bridge, which your honour knows was a very slight one, was broke down betwixt us, and splintered all to pieces. 
At other times, but especially when my uncle Toby was so unfortunate as to say a syllable about cannons, bombs or petards, -my father would exhaust all the stores of his eloquence (which indeed were very great) in a panegyric upon the 
[Page 130]
BATTERING-RAMS of the ancients,-the VINEA which Alexander made use of at the siege of Tyre. -He would tell my uncle Toby of the Catapultæ of the Syrians which threw such monstrous stones so many hundred feet, and shook the strongest bulwarks from their very foundation;-he would go on and describe the wonderful mechanism of the BALLISTA, which Marcellinus makes so much rout about,-the terrible effects of the PYRABOLI,-which cast fire,-the danger of the TEREBRA and SCORPIO, which cast javelins. -But what are these, he would say, to the destructive machinery of corporal Trim? - Believe me, brother Toby, no bridge, or bastion, or sally port that ever was constructed in this world, can hold out against such artillery. 
My uncle Toby would never attempt 
[Page 131]
any defence against the force of this ridicule, but that of redoubling the vehemence of smoaking his pipe; in doing which, he raised so dense a vapour one night after supper, that it set my father, who was a little phthisical, into a suffocating fit of violent coughing: my uncle Toby leap'd up without feeling the pain upon his groin,-and, with infinite pity, stood beside his brother's chair, tapping his back with one hand, and holding his head with the other, and from time to time, wiping his eyes with a clean cambrick handkerchief, which he pull'd out of his pocket. -The affectionate and endearing manner in which my uncle Toby did these little offices,-cut my father thro' his reins, for the pain he had just been giving him. -May my brains be knock'd out with a battering ram or a catapulta, I care not which, 
[Page 132]
quoth my father to himself,-if ever I insult this worthy soul more. 
CHAP. XXV. 
The draw-bridge being held irreparable, Trim was ordered directly to set about another,-but not upon the same model; for cardinal Alberoni's intrigues at that time being discovered, and my uncle Toby rightly foreseeing that a flame would inevitably break out betwixt Spain and the Empire, and that the operations of the ensuing campaign must in all likelihood be either in Naples or Scicily,-he determined upon an Italian bridge,-(my uncle Toby, by the bye, was not far out in his conjectures)- but my father, who was infinitely the better politician, and took the lead as far of my uncle Toby in the cabinet, as my 
[Page 133]
uncle Toby took it of him in the field,- convinced him, that if the King of Spain and the Emperor went together by the ears, that England and France and Holland must, by force of their pre-engagements, all enter the lifts too;-and if so, he would say, the combatants, brother Toby, as sure as we are alive, will fall to it again, pell-mell, upon the old prize-fighting stage of Flanders;-then what will you do with your Italian bridge? 
-We will go on with it then, upon the old model, cried my uncle Toby. 
When corporal Trim had about half finished it in that stile,-my uncle Toby found out a capital defect in it, which he had never thoroughly considered before. It turned, it seems, upon hinges at both ends of it, opening in the middle, one 
[Page 134]
half of which turning to one side of the fosse, and the other, to the other; the advantage of which was this, that by dividing the weight of the bridge into two equal portions, it impowered my uncle Toby to raise it up or let it down with the end of his crutch, and with one hand, which, as his garrison was weak, was as much as he could well spare,-but the disadvantages of such a construction were insurmountable,-for by this means, he would say, I leave one half of my bridge in my enemy's possession,-and pray of what use is the other? 
The natural remedy for this, was no doubt to have his bridge fast only at one end with hinges, so that the whole might be lifted up together, and stand bolt upright, -but that was rejected for the reason given above. 

[Page 135]
For a whole week after he was determined in his mind to have one of that particular construction which is made to draw back horizontally, to hinder a passage; and to thrust forwards again to gain a passage,-of which sorts your worships might have seen three famous ones at Spires before its destruction,-and one now at Brisac, if I mistake not;- but my father advising my uncle Toby, with great earnestness, to have nothing more to do with thrusting bridges,-and my uncle foreseeing moreover that it would but perpetuate the memory of the corporal's misfortune,-he changed his mind, for that of the marquis d'Hôpital's invention, which the younger Bernouilli has so well and learnedly described, as your worships may see,-Act. Erud. Lips. an. 1695,-to these a lead weight is an eternal ballance, and keeps watch as well as a 
[Page 136]
couple of centinels, inasmuch as the construction of them was a curve-line approximating to a cycloid,-if not a cycloid itself. 
My uncle Toby understood the nature of a parabola as well as any man in England, -but was not quite such a master of the cycloid;-he talked however about it every day;-the bridge went not forwards. -We'll ask somebody about it, cried my uncle Toby to Trim. 
CHAP. XXVI. 
When Trim came in and told my father, that Dr. Slop was in the kitchen, and busy in making a bridge,- my uncle Toby,-the affair of the jack-boots having just then raised a train of military ideas in his brain,-took it instantly 
[Page 137]
for granted that Dr. Slop was making a model of the marquis d' Hôpital's bridge. --'Tis very obliging in him, quoth my uncle Toby;-pray give my humble service to Dr. Slop, Trim, and tell him I thank him heartily. 
Had my uncle Toby's head been a Savoyard's box, and my father peeping in all the time at one end of it,-it could not have given him a more distinct conception of the operations in my uncle Toby's imagination, than what he had; so notwithstanding the catapulta and battering-ram, and his bitter imprecation about them, he was just beginning to triumph.- 
When Trim's answer, in an instant, tore the laurel from his brows, and twisted it to pieces. 

[Page 138]

CHAP. XXVII. 
-This unfortunate draw-bridge of yours, quoth my father- God bless your honour, cried Trim, 'tis a bridge for master's nose. -In bringing him into the world with his vile instruments, he has crush'd his nose, Susannah says, as flat as a pancake to his face, and he is making a false bridge with a piece of cotton and a thin piece of whalebone out of Susannah's stays, to raise it up. 
-Lead me, brothet Toby, cried my father, to my room this instant. 

[Page 139]

CHAP. XXVIII. 
From the first moment I sat down to write my life for the amusement of the world, and my opinions for its instruction, has a cloud insensibly been gathering over my father. -A tide of little evils and distresses has been setting in against him. -Not one thing, as he observed himself, has gone right: and now is the storm thicken'd, and going to break, and pour down full upon his head. 
I enter upon this part of my story in the most pensive and melancholy frame of mind, that ever sympathetic breast was touched with. -My nerves relax as I tell it. -Every line I write, I feel an abatement of the quickness of 
[Page 140]
my pulse, and of that careless alacrity with it, which every day of my life prompts me to say and write a thousand things I should not. -And this moment that I last dipp'd my pen into my ink, I could not help taking notice what a cautious air of sad composure and solemnity there appear'd in my manner of doing it. -Lord! how different from the rash jerks, and hare-brain'd squirts thou art wont, Tristram! to transact it with in other humours,-dropping thy pen,-spurting thy ink about thy table and thy books,-as if thy pen and thy ink, thy books and thy furniture cost thee nothing. 
CHAP. XXIX. 
-I won't go about to argue the point with you,-'tis so,-and 
[Page 141]
I am persuaded of it, madam, as much as can be, "" 
The moment my father got up into his chamber, he threw himself prostrate across his bed in the wildest disorder imaginable, but at the same time, in the most lamentable attitude of a man borne down with sorrows, that ever the eye of pity dropp'd a tear for. -The palm of his right hand, as he fell upon the bed, receiving his forehead, and covering the greatest part of both his eyes, gently sunk down with his head (his elbow giving way backwards) till his nose touch'd the quilt;-his left arm hung insensible over the side of the bed, his knuckles reclining upon the handle of the chamber 
[Page 142]
pot, which peep'd out beyond the valance, -his right leg (his left being drawn up towards his body) hung half over the side of the bed, the edge of it pressing upon his shin-bone. --He felt it not. A fix'd, inflexible sorrow took possession of every line of his face. -He sigh'd once,-heaved his breast often,- but utter'd not a word. 
An old set-stitch'd chair, valanced and fringed around with party-colour'd worsted bobs, stood at the bed's head, opposite to the side where my father's head reclined. -My uncle Toby sat him down in it. 
Before an affliction is digested,- consolation ever comes too soon;-and after it is digested,-it comes too late: so that you see, madam, there is but a 
[Page 143]
mark between these two, as fine almost as a hair, for a comforter to take aim at: my uncle Toby was always either on this side, or on that of it, and would often say, He believed in his heart, he could as soon hit the longitude; for this reason, when he sat down in the chair, he drew the curtain a little forwards, and having a tear at every one's service,-he pull'd out a cambrick handkerchief,-gave a low sigh,-but held his peace. 
CHAP. XXX. 
-"" -So that notwithstanding my father had the happiness of reading the oddest books in the universe, and had moreover, in himself, the oddest way of thinking, that ever 
[Page 144]
man in it was bless'd with, yet it had this drawback upon him after all,--that it laid him open to some of the oddest and most whimsical distresses; of which this particular one which he sunk under at present is as strong an example as can be given. 
No doubt, the breaking down of the bridge of a child's nose, by the edge of a pair of forceps,-however scientifically applied,-would vex any man in the world, who was at so much pains in begetting a child, as my father was,- yet it will not account for the extravagance of his affliction, or will it justify the unchristian manner he abandoned and surrender'd himself up to it. 
To explain this, I must leave him upon 
[Page 145]
the bed for half an hour,-and my good uncle Toby in his old fringed chair sitting beside him. 
CHAP. XXXI. 
-I think it a very unreasonable demand,-cried my great grandfather, twisting up the paper, and throwing it upon the table. -By this account, madam, you have but two thousand pounds fortune, and not a shilling more,-and you insist upon having three hundred pounds a year jointure for it.- 
-"" replied my great grandmother, ""- 
Now, before I venture to make use 
[Page 146]
of the word Nose a second time,-to avoid all confusion in what will be said upon it, in this interesting part of my story, it may not be amiss to explain my own meaning, and define, with all possible exactness and precision, what I would willingly be understood to mean by the term: being of opinion, that 'tis owing to the negligence and perverseness of writers, in despising this precaution, and to nothing else,-That all the polemical writings in divinity, are not as clear and demonstrative as those upon a Will o' the Wisp, or any other sound part of philosophy, and natural pursuit; in order to which, what have you to do, before you set out, unless you intend to go puzzling on to the day of judgment,-but to give the world a good definition, and stand to it; of the main word you have most occasion for,-changing it, Sir, as 
[Page 147]
you would a guinea, into small coin?- which done,-let the father of confusion puzzle you, if he can; or put a different idea either into your head, or your reader's head, if he knows how. 
In books of strict morality and close reasoning, such as this I am engaged in,-the neglect is inexcusable; and heaven is witness, how the world has revenged itself upon me for leaving so many openings to equivocal strictures,- and for depending so much as I have done, all along, upon the cleanliness of my reader's imaginations. 
-Here are two senses, cried Eugenius, as we walk'd along, pointing with the fore finger of his right hand to the word Crevice, in the fifty-second page of the second volume of this book of books, 
[Page 148]
-here are two senses,--quoth he. - And here are two roads, replied I, turning short upon him,-a dirty and a clean one,-which shall we take? - The clean,-by all means, replied Eugenius. Eugenius, said I, stepping before him, and laying my hand upon his breast,-to define-is to distrust. - Thus I triumph'd over Eugenius; but I triumph'd over him as I always do, like a fool. -'Tis my comfort however, I am not an obstinate one; therefore 
I define a nose, as follows,--intreating only beforehand, and beseeching my readers, both male and female, of what age, complexion, and condition soever, for the love of God and their own souls, to guard against the temptations and suggestions of the devil, and suffer him by no art or wile to put any other ideas 
[Page 149]
into their minds, than what I put into my definition. -For by the word Nose, throughout all this long chapter of noses, and in every other part of my work, where the word Nose occurs,-I declare, by that word I mean a Nose, and nothing more, or less. 
CHAP. XXXII. 
-"" quoth my grandmother, repeating the words again,-""- 
S'death! cried my great grandfather, clapping his hand upon his nose,-'tis not so small as that comes to;-'tis a full inch longer than my father's. -Now, my great grandfather's nose was for all 
[Page 150]
the world like unto the noses of all the men, women, and children, whom Pantagruel found dwelling upon the island of Ennasin. -By the way, if you would know the strange way of getting a-kin amongst so flat-nosed a people,-you must read the book;-find it out yourself, you never can.- 
-'Twas shaped, Sir, like an ace of clubs. 
-'Tis a full inch, continued my great grandfather, pressing up the ridge of his nose with his finger and thumb; and repeating his assertion,-'tis a full inch longer, madam, than my father's-. You must mean your uncle's, replied my great grandmother. 

[Page 151]
-My great grandfather was convinced. -He untwisted the paper, and signed the article. 
CHAP. XXXIII. 
-What an unconscionable jointure, my dear, do we pay out of this small estate of ours, quoth my grandmother to my grandfather. 
My father, replied my grandfather, had no more nose, my dear, saving the mark, than there is upon the back of my hand.- 
-Now, you must know, that my great grandmother outlived my grandfather twelve years; so that my father 
[Page 152]
had the jointure to pay, a hundred and fifty pounds half yearly-(on Michaelmas and Lady day)-during all that time. 
No man discharged pecuniary obligations with a better grace than my father. -And as far as the hundred pounds went, he would fling it upon the table, guinea by guinea, with that spirited jerk of an honest welcome, which generous souls, and generous souls only, are able to fling down money: but as soon as ever he enter'd upon the odd fifty,-he generally gave a loud Hem!-rubb'd the side of his nose leisurely with the flat part of his fore finger,-inserted his hand cautiously betwixt his head and the cawl of his wig,-look'd at both sides of every guinea, as he parted with it,-and seldom 
[Page 153]
could get to the end of the fifty pounds, without pulling out his handkerchief, and wiping his temples. 
Defend me, gracious heaven! from those persecuting spirits who make no allowances for these workings within us. - Never,-O never may I lay down in their tents, who cannot relax the engine, and feel pity for the force of education, and the prevalence of opinions long derived from ancestors! 
For three generations at least, this tenet in favour of long noses had gradually been taking root in our family. - Tradition was all along on its side, and Interest was every half year stepping in to strengthen it; so that the whimsicality of my father's brain was far from 
[Page 154]
having the whole honour of this, as it had of almost all his other strange notions. - For in a great measure he might be said to have suck'd this in, with his mother's milk. He did his part however. -If education planted the mistake, (in case it was one) my father watered it, and ripened it to perfection. 
He would often declare, in speaking his thoughts upon the subject, that he did not conceive how the greatest family in England could stand it out against an uninterrupted succession of six or seven short noses. -And for the contrary reason, he would generally add, That it must be one of the greatest problems in civil life, where the same number of long and jolly noses following one another in a direct line, did not raise and hoist it 
[Page 155]
up into the best vacancies in the kingdom. -He would often boast that the Shandy family rank'd very high in king Harry the VIIIth's time, but owed its rise to no state engine,-he would say,- but to that only;-but that, like other families, he would add,-it had felt the turn of the wheel, and had never recovered the blow of my great grandfather's nose. -It was an ace of clubs indeed, he would cry, shaking his head,-and as vile a one for an unfortunate family, as ever turn'd up trumps. 
-Fair and softly, gentle reader! -where is thy fancy carrying thee? -If there is truth in man, by my great grandfather's nose, I mean the external organ of smelling, or that part of man which stands prominent in his face, 
[Page 156]
-and which painters say, in good jolly noses and well-proportioned faces, should comprehend a full third,-that is, measuring downwards from the setting on of the hair.- 
-What a life of it has an author, at this pass! 
CHAP. XXXIV. 
It is a singular blessing, that nature has form'd the mind of man with the same happy backwardness and renitency against conviction, which is observed in old dogs,-"" 
What a shuttlecock of a fellow would the greatest philosopher that ever existed, be whisk'd into at once, did he read 
[Page 157]
such books, and observe such facts, and think such thoughts, as would eternally be making him change sides! 
Now, my father, as I told you last year, detested all this. -He pick'd up an opinion, Sir, as a man in a state of nature picks up an apple. -It becomes his own,- and if he is a man of spirit, he would lose his life rather than give it up.- 
I am aware, that Didius the great civilian, will contest this point; and cry out against me, Whence comes this man's right to this apple? ex confesso, he will say,-things were in a state of nature. -The apple, as much Frank's apple, as John's. Pray, Mr. Shandy, what patent has he to shew for it? and how did it begin to be his? was it, when he set 
[Page 158]
his heart upon it? or when he gather'd it? or when he chew'd it? or when he roasted it? or when he peel'd? or when he brought it home? or when he digested? -or when he------?-. For 'tis plain, Sir, if the first picking up of the apple, made it not his,-that no subsequent act could. 
Brother Didius, Tribonius will answer,- (now Tribonius the civilian and church lawyer's beard being three inches and a half and three eighths longer than Didius his beard,-I'm glad he takes up the cudgels for me, so I give myself no further trouble about the answer.) -Brother Didius, Tribonius will say, it is a decreed case, as you may find it in the fragments of Gregorius and Hermogenes's codes, and in all the codes from Justinian's down to 
[Page 159]
the codes of Louis and Des Eaux,-That the sweat of a man's brows, and the exsudations of a man's brains, are as much a man's own property, as the breeches upon his backside;-which said exsudations, &c. being dropp'd upon the said apple by the labour of finding it, and picking it up; and being moreover indissolubly wasted, and as indissolubly annex'd by the picker up, to the thing pick'd up, carried home, roasted, peel'd, eaten, digested, and so on;-'tis evident that the gatherer of the apple, in so doing, has mix'd up something which was his own, with the apple which was not his own, by which means he has acquired a property;-or, in other words, the apple is John's apple. 
By the same learned chain of reasoning 
[Page 160]
my father stood up for all his opinions: he had spared no pains in picking them up, and the more they lay out of the common way, the better still was his title. -No mortal claim'd them: they had cost him moreover as much labour in cooking and digesting as in the case above, so that they might well and truely be said to be his own goods and chattles. -Accordingly he held fast by 'em, both by teeth and claws,-would fly to whatever he could lay his hands on,-and in a word, would intrench and fortify them round with as many circumvallations and breast-works, as my uncle Toby woulda ciad 
There was one plaguy rub in the way of this,-the scarcity of materials to make any thing of a defence with, in case 
[Page 161]
of a smart attack; inasmuch as few men of great genius had exercised their parts in writing books upon the subject of great noses: by the trotting of my lean horse, the thing is incredible! and I am quite lost in my understanding when I am considering what a treasure of precious time and talents together has been wasted upon worse subjects,-and how many millions of books in all languages, and in all possible types and bindings, have been fabricated upon points not half so much tending to the unity and peace-making of the world. What was to be had, however, he set the greater store by; and though my father would oft-times sport with my uncle Toby's library, -which, by the bye, was ridiculous enough,-yet at the very same time he did it, he collected every book 
[Page 162]
and treatise which had been systematically wrote upon noses, with as much care as my honest uncle Toby had done those upon military architecture. -'Tis true, a much less table would have held them,- but that was not thy transgression, my dear uncle.- 
Here,-but why here,-rather than in any other part of my story,- I am not able to tell;-but here it is,-my heart stops me to pay to thee, my dear uncle Toby, once for all, the tribute I owe thy goodness. -Here let me thrust my chair aside, and kneel down upon the ground, whilst I am pouring forth the warmest sentiments of love for thee, and veneration for the excellency of thy character, that ever virtue and nature kindled in a 
[Page 163]
nephew's bosom. -Peace and comfort rest for evermore upon thy head! - Thou envied'st no man's comforts,- insulted'st no man's opinions. -Thou blackened'st no man's character,- devoured'st no man's bread: gently with faithful Trim behind thee, didst thou amble round the little circle of thy pleasures, jostling no creature in thy way;-for each one's service, thou hadst a tear,-for each man's need, thou hadst a shilling. 
Whilst I am worth one, to pay a weeder,-thy path from thy door to thy bowling green shall never be grown up. -Whilst there is a rood and a half of land in the Shandy family, thy fortifications, my dear uncle Toby, shall never be demolish'd. 

[Page 164]

CHAP. XXXV. 
My father's collection was not great, but to make amends, it was curious; and consequently, he was some time in making it; he had the great good fortune however to set off well, in getting Bruscambille's prologue upon long noses, almost for nothing,-for he gave no more for Bruscambille than three half crowns; owing indeed to the strong fancy which the stall-man saw my father had for the book the moment he laid his hands upon it. -There are not three Bruscumbilles in Christendom,-said the stall-man, except what are chain'd up in the libraries of the curious. My father flung down the money as quick as lightening,-took Bruscambille into his bosom,-hyed home 
[Page 165]
from Piccadilly to Coleman-street with it, as he would have hyed home with a treasure, without taking his hand once off from Bruscambille all the way. 
To those who do not yet know of which gender Bruscambille is,-inasmuch as a prologue upon long noses might easily be done by either,-'twill be no objection against the simile,-to say, That when my father got home, he solaced himself with Bruscambille after the manner, in which, 'tis ten to one, your worship solaced yourself with your first mistress,-that is, from morning even unto night: which by the bye, how delightful soever it may prove to the inamorato,-is of little, or no entertainment at all, to by-standers. -Take notice, I go no farther with the simile,- my father's eye was greater than his 
[Page 166]
appetite,-his zeal greater than his knowledge, -he cool'd-his affections became divided,-he got hold of Prignitz, -purchased Scroderus, Andrea Paræus, Bouchet's Evening Conferences, and above all, the great and learned Hafen Slawkenbergius; of which, as I shall have much to say by and bye,-I will say nothing now. 
CHAP. XXXVI. 
Of all the tracts my father was at the pains to procure and study in support of his hypothesis, there was not any one wherein he felt a more cruel disappointment at first, than in the celebrated dialogue between Pamphagus and Cocles, written by the chaste pen of the great and venerable Erasmus, upon the various uses 
[Page 167]
and seasonable applications of long noses. -Now don't let Satan, my dear girl, in this chapter, take advantage of any one spot of rising-ground to get astride of your imagination, if you can any ways help it; or if he is so nimble as to slip on,-let me beg of you, like an unback'd filly, to frisk it, to squirt it, to jump it, to rear it, to bound it,-and to kick it, with long kicks and short kicks, till like Tickletoby's mare, you break a strap or a crupper, and throw his worship into the dirt. --You need not kill him.- 
-And pray who was Tickletoby's mare?-'tis just as discreditable and unscholar-like a question, Sir, as to have asked what year (ab urb. con.) the second Punic war broke out. -Who was Tickletoby's 
[Page 168]
mare! -Read, read, read, read, my unlearned reader! read,-or by the knowledge of the great saint Paraleipomenon- I tell you before-hand, you had better throw down the book at once; for without much reading, by which your reverence knows, I mean much knowledge, you will no more be able to penetrate the moral of the next marbled page (motly emblem of my work!) than the world with all its sagacity has been able to unraval the many opinions, transactions and truths which still lie mystically hid under the dark veil of the black one. 

[Page 169]

[Page 170]

[Page 171]

CHAP. XXXVII. 
"" quoth Pamphagus;-that is,- "" -"" replies Cocles; that is, "" 
The doctrine, you see, was laid down by Erasmus, as my father wished it, with the utmost plainness; but my father's disappointment was, in finding nothing more from so able a pen, but the bare fact itself; without any of that speculative subtilty or ambidexterity of argumentation upon it, which heaven had bestow'd upon man on purpose to investigate truth and fight for her on all sides. -My father pish'd and pugh'd at first most terribly,- 'tis worth something to have a good name. As the dialogue was of Erasmus, my father soon came to himself, and read 
[Page 172]
it over and over again with great application, studying every word and every syllable of it thro' and thro' in its most strict and literal interpretation,-he could still make nothing of it, that way. Mayhaps there is more meant, than is said in it, quoth my father. -Learned men, brother Toby, don't write dialogues upon long noses for nothing. --I'll study the mystic and the allegoric sense,--here is some room to turn a man's self in, brother. 
My father read on.-- 
Now, I find it needful to inform your reverences and worships, that besides the many nautical uses of long noses enumerated by Erasmus, the dialogist affirmeth that a long nose is not without its domestic conveniences also, for that in a case of distress,-and for want of a pair of bellows, it will do excellently well, ad excitandum focum, (to stir up the fire.) 

[Page 173]
Nature had been prodigal in her gifts to my father beyond measure, and had sown the seeds of verbal criticism as deep within him, as she had done the seeds of all other knowledge,-so that he had got out his penknife, and was trying experiments upon the sentence, to see if he could not scratch some better sense into it. -I've got within a single letter, brother Toby, cried my father, of Erasmus his mystic meaning. -You are near enough, brother, replied my uncle, in all conscience. - Pshaw! cried my father, scratching on,- I might as well be seven miles off. -I've done it,-said my father, snapping his fingers. -See, my dear brother Toby, how I have mended the sense. -But you have marr'd a word, replied my uncle Toby. - My father put on his spectacles,-bit his lip,-and tore out the leaf in a passion. 

[Page 174]

CHAP. XXXVIII. 
O Slawkenbergius! thou faithful analyzer of my Disgrázias,-thou sad foreteller of so many of the whips and short turns, which in one stage or other of my life have come slap upon me from the shortness of my nose, and no other cause, that I am conscious of. -Tell me, Slawkenbergius! what secret impulse was it? what intonation of voice? whence came it? how did it sound in thy ears?- art thou sure thou heard'st it?-which first cried out to thee,-go,-go, Slawkenbergius! dedicate the labours of thy life,-neglect thy pastimes,-call forth all the powers and faculties of thy nature, -macerate thyself in the service of mankind, and write a grand FOLIO for them, upon the subject of their noses. 

[Page 175]
How the communication was conveyed into Slawkenbergius's sensorium,-so that Slawkenbergius should know whose finger touch'd the key,-and whose hand it was that blew the bellows,- as Hafen Slawkenbergius has been dead and laid in his grave above fourscore and ten years,-we can only raise conjectures. 
Slawkenbergius was play'd upon, for aught I know, like one of Whitfield's disciples,-that is, with such a distinct intelligence, Sir, of which of the two masters it was, that had been practising upon his instrument,-as to make all reasoning upon it needless. 
-For in the account which Hafen Slawkenbergius gives the world of his motives and occasions for writing, and spending so many years of his life upon 
[Page 176]
this one work. -Towards the end of his prologomena, which by the bye should have come first,-but the bookbinder has most injudiciously placed it betwixt the analitical contents of the book, and the book itself,-he informs his reader, that ever since he had arrived at the age of discernment, and was able to sit down coolly, and consider within himself the true state and condition of man, and distinguish the main end and design of his being;-or,-to shorten my translation, for Slawkenbergius's book is in Latin, and not a little prolix in this passage, -ever since I understood, quoth Slawkenbergius, any thing,--or rather what was what,-and could perceive that the point of long noses had been too loosely handled by all who had gone before; -have I, Slawkenbergius, felt a strong impulse, with a mighty and an unresistible 
[Page 177]
call within me, to gird up myself to this undertaking. 
And to do justice to Slawkenbergius, he has entered the list with a stronger lance, and taken a much larger career in it, than any one man who had ever entered it before him,-and indeed, in many respects, deserves to be en-nich'd as a prototype for all writers, of voluminous works at least, to model their books by,-for he has taken in, Sir, the whole subject,- examined every part of it, dialectially,- then brought it into full day; dilucidating it with all the light which either the collision of his own natural parts could strike,-or the profoundest knowledge of the sciences had impowered him to cast upon it,--collating, collecting and compiling,-begging, borrowing, and stealing, as he went along, all that had 
[Page 178]
been wrote or wrangled thereupon in the schools and porticos of the learned: so that Slawkenbergius his book may properly be considered, not only as a model,-but as a thorough-stitch'd DIGEST and regular institute of noses; comprehending in it, all that is, or can be needful to be known about them. 
For this cause it is, that I forbear to speak of so many (otherwise) valuable books and treatises of my father's collecting, wrote either, plump upon noses,- or collaterally touching them;-such for instance as Prignitz, now lying upon the table before me, who with infinite learning, and from the most candid and scholar-like examination of above four thousand different skulls, in upwards of twenty charnel houses in Silesia, which he had rummaged,-has informed us, that 
[Page 179]
the mensuration and configuration of the osseous or boney parts of human noses, in any given tract of country, except Crim Tartary, where they are all crush'd down by the thumb, so that no judgment can be formed upon them,-are much nearer alike, than the world imagines;-the difference amongst them, being, he says, a mere trifle, not worth taking notice of, -but that the size and jollity of every individual nose, and by which one nose ranks above another, and bears a higher price, is owing to the cartilagenous and muscular parts of it, into whose ducts and sinuses the blood and animal spirits being impell'd, and driven by the warmth and force of the imagination, which is but a step from it, (bating the case of ideots, whom Prignitz, who had lived many years in Turky, supposes under the more immediate tutelage of heaven)--it so 
[Page 180]
happens, and ever must, says Prignitz, that the excellency of the nose is in a direct arithmetical proportion to the excellency of the wearer's fancy. 
It is for the same reason, that is, because 'tis all comprehended in Slawkenbergius, that I say nothing likewise of Scroderus (Andrea) who all the world knows, set himself to oppugn Prignitz with great violence,-proving it in his own way, first, logically and then by a series of stubborn facts, "" 
-The learned suspected Scroderus, of an indecent sophism in this,-and Prignitz cried out aloud in the dispute, that Scroderus had shifted the idea upon him, 
[Page 181]
-but Scroderus went on, maintaining his thesis.- 
My father was just balancing within himself, which of the two sides he should take in this affair; when Ambrose Paræus decided it in a moment, and by overthrowing the systems, both of Prignitz and Scroderus, drove my father out of both sides of the controversy at once. 
Be witness- 
I don't acquaint the learned reader,- in saying it, I mention it only to shew the learned, I know the fact myself.- 
The this Ambrose Paræus was chief surgeon and nose-mender to Francis the ninth of France, and in high credit with him and the two preceding, or succeeding 
[Page 182]
kings (I know not which)-and that except in the slip he made in his story of Taliacotius's noses, and his manner of setting them on,-was esteemed by the whole college of physicians at that time, as more knowing in matters of noses, than any one who had ever taken them in hand. 
Now Ambrose Paræus convinced my father, that the true and efficient cause of what had engaged so much the attention of the world, and upon which Prignitz and Scroderus had wasted so much learning and fine parts,-was neither this nor that,-but that the length and goodness of the nose was owing simply to the softness and flaccidity in the nurse's breast, -as the flatness and shortness of puisne noses was, to the firmness and elastic repulsion of the same organ of nutrition 
[Page 183]
in the hale and lively,-which, tho' happy for the woman, was the undoing of the child, inasmuch as his nose was so snubb'd, so rebuff'd, so rebated, and so refrigerated thereby, as never to arrive ad mensuram suam legitimam;-but that in case of the flaccidity and softness of the nurse or mother's breast,-by sinking into it, quoth Paræus, as into so much butter, the nose was comforted, nourish'd, plump'd up, refresh'd, refocillated, and set a growing for ever. 
I have but two things to observe of Paræus; first, that he proves and explains all this with the utmost chastity and decorum of expression:-for which may his soul for ever rest in peace! 
And, secondly, that besides the systems of Prignitz and Scroderus, which Ambrose 
[Page 184]
Paræus his hypothesis effectually overthrew, -it overthrew at the same time the system of peace and harmony of our family; and for three days together, not only embroiled matters between my father and my mother, but turn'd likewise the whole house and every thing in it, except my uncle Toby, quite upside down. 
Such a ridiculous tale of a dispute between a man and his wife; never surely in any age or country got vent through the key-hole of a street-door! 
My mother, you must know,-but I have fifty things more necessary to let you know first,-I have a hundred difficulties which I have promised to clear up, and a thousand distresses and domestic misadventures crouding in upon me 
[Page 185]
thick and three-fold, one upon the neck of another,-a cow broke in (tomorrow morning) to my uncle Toby's fortifications, and eat up two ratios and half of dried grass, tearing up the sods with it, which faced his horn-work and covered way. -Trim insists upon being tried by a court-martial,-the cow to be shot, -Slop to be crucifix'd,-myself to be tristram'd, and at my very baptism made a martyr of;--poor unhappy devils that we all are! -I want swaddling,-but there is no time to be lost in exclamations. -I have left my father lying across his bed, and my uncle Toby in his old fringed chair, sitting beside him, and promised I would go back to them in half an hour, and five and thirty minutes are laps'd already. -Of all the perplexities a mortal author was ever seen in,-this certainly is the greatest, 
[Page 186]
-for I have Hafen Slawkenbergius's folio, Sir, to finish-a dialogue between my father and my uncle Toby, upon the solution of Prignitz, Scroderus, Ambrose Paræus, Ponocrates and Grangousier to relate, -a tale out of Slawkenbergius to translate, and all this in five minutes less, than no time at all;-such a head!-would to heaven! my enemies only saw the inside of it! 
CHAP. XXXIX. 
There was not any one scene more entertaining in our family,-and to do it justice in this point;--and I here put off my cap and lay it upon the table close beside my ink-horn, on purpose to make my declaration to the world concerning this one article, the more solemn, -that I believe in my soul, (unless 
[Page 187]
my love and partiality to my understanding blinds me) the hand of the supreme Maker and first Designer of all things, never made or put a family together, (in that period at least of it, which I have sat down to write the story of)- where the characters of it were cast or contrasted with so dramatic a felicity as ours was, for this end; or in which the capacities of affording such exquisite scenes, and the powers of shifting them perpetually from morning to night, were lodged and intrusted with so unlimited a confidence, as in the Shandy-family. 
Not any one of these was more diverting, I say, in this whimsical theatre of ours,-than what frequently arose out of this self-same chapter of long noses,- especially when my father's imagination was heated with the enquiry, aud nothing 
[Page 188]
would serve him but to heat my uncle Toby's too. 
My uncle Toby would give my father all possible fair play in this attempt; and with infinite patience would sit smoaking his pipe for whole hours together, whilst my father was practising upon his head, and trying every accessible avenue to drive Prignitz and Scroderus's solutions into it. 
Whether they were above my uncle Toby's reason,-or contrary to it,- or that his brain was like wet tinder, and no spark could possibly take hold,-or that it was so full of saps, mines, blinds, curtins, and such military disqualifications to his seeing clearly into Prignitz and Scroderus's doctrines,-I say not,- let school-men-scullions, anatomists, and 
[Page 189]
engineers, fight for it amongst themselves.- 
'Twas some misfortune, I make no doubt, in this affair, that my father had every word of it to translate for the benefit of my uncle Toby, and render out of Slawkenbergius's Latin, of which, as he was no great master, his translation was not always of the purest,-and generally least so where 'twas most wanted,-this naturally open'd a door to a second misfortune; -that in the warmer paroxisms of his zeal to open my uncle Toby's eyes -my father's ideas run on, as much faster than the translation, as the translation outmoved my uncle Toby's;- neither the one or the other added much to the perspicuity of my father's lecture. 

[Page 190]

CHAP. XL. 
The gift of ratiocination and making syllogisms,-I mean in man, -for in superior classes of beings, such as angels and spirits,-'tis all done, may it please your worships, as they tell me, by INTUITION;-and beings inferior, as your worships all know,--syllogize by their noses: though there is an island swiming in the sea, though not altogether at its ease, whose inhabitants, if my intelligence deceives me not, are so wonderfully gifted, as to syllogize after the same fashion, and oft-times to make very well out too:-but that's neither here nor there- 
The gift of doing it as it should be, amongst us,-or the great and principal 
[Page 191]
act of ratiocination in man, as logicians tell us, is the finding out the agreement or disagreement of two ideas one with another, by the intervention of a third; (called the medius terminus) just as a man, as Locke well observes, by a yard, finds two mens nine-pin-alleys to be of the same length, which could not be brought together, to measure their equality, by juxta-position. 
Had the same great reasoner looked on, as my father illustrated his systems of noses, and observed my uncle Toby's deportment, -what great attention he gave to every word,-and as oft as he took his pipe from his mouth, with what wonderful seriousness he contemplated the length of it,-surveying it transversely as he held it betwixt his finger and his thumb, -then foreright,-then this way, and 
[Page 192]
then that, in all its possible directions and foreshortenings,-he would have concluded my uncle Toby had got hold of the medius terminus; and was syllogizing and measuring with it the truth of each hypothesis of long noses, in order as my father laid them before him. This by the bye, was more than my father wanted,- his aim in all the pains he was at in these philosophic lectures,-was to enable my uncle Toby not to discuss,-but comprehend -to hold the grains and scruples of learning,-not to weigh them. - My uncle Toby, as you will read in the next chapter, did neither the one or the other. 

[Page 193]

CHAP. XLI. 
'Tis a pity, cried my father one winter's night, after a three hours painful translation of Slawkenbergius,-'tis a pity, cried my father, putting my mother's thread-paper into the book for a mark, as he spoke--that truth, brother Toby, should shut herself up in such impregnable fastnesses, and be so obstinate as not to surrender herself sometimes up upon the closest siege.- 
Now it happened then, as indeed it had often done before, that my uncle Toby's fancy, during the time of my father's explanation of Prignitz to him,-having nothing to stay it there, had taken a short flight to the bowling-green;-his body might as well have taken a turn there 
[Page 194]
too,-so that with all the semblance of a deep school-man intent upon the medius terminus,-my uncle Toby was in fact as ignorant of the whole lecture, and all its pro's and con's, as if my father had been translating Hafen Slawkenbergius from the Latin tongue into the Cherokeè. But the word siege, like a talismanic power,' in my father's metaphor, wafting back my uncle Toby's fancy, quick as a note could follow the touch,-he open'd his ears,-and my father observing that he took his pipe out of his mouth, and shuffled his chair nearer the table, as with a desire to profit,-my father with great pleasure began his sentence again,- changing only the plan, and dropping the metaphor of the siege of it, to keep clear of some dangers my father apprehended from it. 

[Page 195]
'Tis a pity, said my father, that truth can only be on one side, brother Toby,- considering what ingenuity these learned men have all shewn in their solutions of noses. -Can noses be dissolved? replied my uncle Toby.- 
-My father thrust back his chair, -rose up,-put on his hat,-took four long strides to the door,-jerked it open,-thrust his head half way out,- shut the door again,-took no notice of the bad hinge,-returned to the table,- pluck'd my mother's thread-paper out of Slawkenbergius's book,-went hastily to his bureau,-walk'd slowly back, twisting my mother's thread-paper about his thumb,-unbutton'd his waistcoat,- threw my mother's thread-paper into the fire,-bit her sattin pin-cushion in two, fill'd his mouth with bran,-confounded it;-but mark!-the oath of confusion 
[Page 196]
was levell'd at my uncle Toby's brain, -which was e'en confused enough already, -the curse came charged only with the bran,-the bran, may it please your honours,-was no more than powder to the ball. 
'Twas well my father's passions lasted not long; for so long as they did last, they led him a busy life on't, and it is one of the most unaccountable problems that ever I met with in my observations of human nature, that nothing should prove my father's mettle so much, or make his passions go off so like gun-powder, as the unexpected strokes his science met with from the quaint simplicity of my uncle Toby's questions. -Had ten dozen of hornets stung him behind in so many different places all at one time,-he could not have exerted more mechanical functions in fewer seconds,-or started half so 
[Page 197]
much, as with one single quære of three words unseasonably popping in full upon him in his hobbyhorsical career. 
'Twas all one to my uncle Toby,-he smoaked his pipe on, with unvaried composure, -his heart never intended offence to his brother,-and as his head could seldom find out where the sting of it lay, -he always gave my father the credit of cooling by himself. -He was five minutes and thirty-five seconds about it in the present case. 
By all that's good! said my father, swearing, as he came to himself, and taking the oath out of Ernulphus's digest of curses,-(though to do my father justice it was a fault (as he told Dr. Slop in the affair of Ernulphus) which he as seldom committed as any man upon earth.) - By all that's good and great! brother 
[Page 198]
Toby, said my father, if it was not for the aids of philosophy, which befriend one so much as they do,-you would put a man beside all temper. -Why, by the solutions of noses, of which I was telling you, I meant as you might have known, had you favoured me with one grain of attention, the various accounts which learned men of different kinds of knowledge have given the world, of the causes of short and long noses. -There is no cause but one, replied my uncle Toby,- why one man's nose is longer than another's, but because that God pleases to have it so. -That is Grangousier's solution, said my father. -'Tis he, continued my uncle Toby, looking up, and not regarding my father's interruption, who makes us all, and frames and puts us together in such forms and proportions, and for such ends, as is agreeable to his infinite wisdom. -'Tis a pious account, cried 
[Page 199]
my father, but not philosophical,-there is more religion in it than sound science. 'Twas no inconsistent part of my uncle Toby's character,--that he feared God, and reverenced religion. -So the moment my father finished his remark,- my uncle Toby fell a whistling Lillabullero, with more zeal (though more out of tune) than usual.- 
What is become of my wife's thread-paper? 
CHAP. XLII. 
No matter,-as an appendage to seamstressy, the thread-paper might be of some consequence to my mother,- of none to my father, as a mark in Slawkenbergius. Slawkenbergius in every page of him was a rich treasury of inexhaustible knowledge to my father,-he could not 
[Page 200]
open him amiss; and he would often say in closing the book, that if all the arts and sciences in the world, with the books which treated of them, were lost,- should the wisdom and policies of governments, he would say, through disuse, ever happen to be forgot, and all that statesmen had wrote, or caused to be written, upon the strong or the weak sides of courts and kingdoms, should they be forgot also,-and Slawkenbergius only left,-there would be enough in him in all conscience, he would say, to set the world a going again. A treasure therefore was he indeed! an institute of all that was necessary to be known of noses, and every thing else,-at matin, noon, and vespers was Hafen Slawkenbergius his recreation and delight: 'twas for ever in his hands,-you would have sworn, Sir, it had been a canon's prayer-book, -so worn, so glazed, so contrited 
[Page 201]
and attrited was it with fingers and with thumbs in all its parts, from one end even unto the other. 
I am not such a bigot to Slawkenbergius, as my father;-there is a fund in him, no doubt; but in my opinion, the best, I don't say the most profitable, but the most amusing part of Hafen Slawkenbergius, is his tales,-and, considering he was a German, many of them told not without fancy:-these take up his second book, containing nearly one half of his folio, and are comprehended in ten decads, each decad containing ten tales. --Philosophy is not built upon tales; and therefore 'twas certainly wrong in Slawkenbergius to send them into the world by that name;-there are a few of them in his eight, ninth, and tenth decads, which I own seem rather playful and sportive, than speculative,-but in general 
[Page 202]
they are to be looked upon by the learned as a detail of so many independent facts, all of them turning round somehow or other upon the main hinges of his subject, and collected by him with great fidelity, and added to his work as so many illustrations upon the doctrines of noses. 
As we have leisure enough upon our hands,-if you give me leave, madam, I'll tell you the ninth tale of his tenth decad. 

The End of the Third Volume.

Vol. 4 

[Page ]

Title Page 
THE LIFE, AND OPINIONS OF TRISTRAM SHANDY, Gentleman.

[Page ]

[Blank page]


[Page ]

Title Page 
THE LIFE AND OPINIONS OF TRISTRAM SHANDY, Gentleman. 

Multitudinis imperitæ non formido judicia; meis tamen, rogo, parcant opusculis-in quibus fuit propositi semper, a jocis ad seria, a seriis vicissim ad jocos transire. 
Joan. Saresberiensis. 
Episcopus Lugdun.
VOL. IV.
LONDON: Printed for R. and J. Dodsley in Pall-Mall. M.DCC.LXI.


[Page ]

[Blank page]

[Page 2]

SLAWKENBERGII Fabella.
[Footnote: 1Kb]* As Hafen Slawkenbergius de Nasis is extremely scarce, it may not be unacceptable to the learned reader to see the specimen of a few pages of his original; I will make no reflection upon it, but that his story-telling Latin is much more concise than his philosophic-and, I think, has more of Latinity in it. 
Vespera quâdam frigidulâ, posteriori in parte mensis Augusti, peregrinus, mulo fusco colore insidens, manticâ a tergo, paucis indusijs, binis calceis, braccisque sericis coccinejs repletâ Argentoratum ingressus est. 
Militi eum percontanti, quum portus intrarel, dixit, se apud Nasorum promontorium fuisse, Francofurtum proficisci, et Argentoratum, transitu ad fines Sarmatiæ mensis intervallo, reversurum. 

[Page 4]
Miles peregrini in faciem suspexit-Di boni, nova forma nosi! 
At multum mihi profuit, inquit peregrinus, carpum amento extrabens, e quo pependit acinases: Loculo manum inseruit; & magnâ cum arbanitate, pilei parte anteriore tactâ manu sinistrâ, ut extendit dextram, militi florinum dedit et processis. 
Dolet mihi, ait miles, tympanistam nanum et valgum alloquens, virum adeo urbanum vaginam perdidisse; itinerari haud poterit nudâ acinaci, neque vaginam toto Argentorato, habilem inveniet. -Nullam unquam habui, respondit peregrinus respiciens, 
[Page 6]
-seque comiter inclinans-hoc more gesto, nudam acinacem elevans, mulo lentò progrediente, ut nasum tueri possim. 
Non immerito, benigne peregrine, respondit miles. 
Nihili æstimo, ait ille tympanista, e pergamenâ factitius est. 
Prout christianus sum, inquit miles, nasus ille, ni sexties major sit, meo esset conformis. 
Crepitare audivi ait tympanista. 

[Page 8]
Mehercule! sanguinem emisit, respondit miles. 
Miseret me, inquit tympanista, qui non ambo titigimus! 
Eodem temporis puncto, quo hæc res argumentata fuit inter militem et tympanistam, disceptabatur ibidem tubicine & uxore suâ, qui tunc accesserunt, et peregrino prætereunte, restiterunt. 
Quantus nasus! æque longus est, ait tubicina, ac tuba. 
Et ex eodem metallo, ait tubicen, velut sternutamento audias. 

[Page 10]
Tantum abest, respondit illa, quod fistulam dulcedine vincit. 
Æneus est, ait tubicen. 
Nequaquam, respondit uxor. 
Rursum affirmo, ait tubicen, quod æneus est. 
Rem penitus explorabo; prius, enim digito tangam, ait uxor, quam dormivero. 
Mulus peregrini, gradu lento progressus est, ut unumquodque verbum controversiæ, non tantum inter militem et tympanistam, verum etiam inter tubicinem et uxorem ejus, audiret. 
Nequaquam, ait ille, in muli collum fræna demittens, & manibus ambabus in 
[Page 12]
pectus positis, (mulo lentè progrediente) nequaquam ait ille, respiciens, non necesse est ut res isthæc dilucidata foret. Minime gentium! meus nasus nunquam tangetur, dum spiritus hos reget artus-ad quid agendum? ait uxor burgomagistri. 
Peregrinus illi non respondit. Votum faciebat tunc temporis sancto Nicolao, quo facto, sinum dextram inserens, e quâ negligenter pependit acinaces, lento gradu processit per plateam Argentorali latam quæ ad diversorium templo ex adversum ducit. 

[Page 14]
Peregrinus mulo descendens stabulo includi, & manticam inferri jussit: quâ apertâ et coccineis sericis femoralibus extractis cum argenteo laciniato ??????????, his sese induit, statimque, acinaci in manu, ad forum deambulavit. 
Quod ubi peregrinus esset ingressus, uxorem tubicinis obviam euntem aspicit; illico cursum flectit, metuens ne nasus suus exploraretur, atque ad diversorium regressus est -exuit se vestibus; braccas coccineas sericas 
[Page 16]
manticæ imposuit mulumque educi jussit. 
Francofurtum proficiscor, ait ille, et Argentoratum quatuor abhinc hebdomadis revertar. 
Bene curasti hoc jumentum (ait) muli faciem manu demulcens-me, manticamque meam, plus sexcentis mille passibus portavit. 
Longa via est! respondet hospes, nisi plurimum esset negoti. -Enimvero ait peregrinus a nasorum promontorio redij, et nasum speciosissimum, egregiosissimumque 
[Page 18]
quem unquam quisquam sortitus est, acquisivi? 
Dum peregrinus hanc miram rationem, de seipso reddit, hospes et uxor ejus, oculis intentis, peregrini nasum contemplantur- Per sanctos, sanctasque omnes, ait hospitis uxor, nasis duodecim maximis, in toto Argentorato major est!-estne ait illa mariti in aurem insusurrans, nonne est nasus prægrandis? 
Dolus inest, anime mi, ait hospes-nasus est falsus.- 
Verus est, respondit uxor.- 
Ex abiète factus est, ait ille, terebinthinum clet- 

[Page 20]
Carbunculus inest, ait uxor. 
Mortuus est nasus, respondit hospes. 
Vivus est, ait illa,-& si ipsa vivam tangam. 
Votum feci sancto Nicolao, ait peregrinus, nasum meum intactum fore usque ad-Quodnam tempus? illico respondit illa. 
Minime tangetur, inquit ille (manibus in pectus compositis) usque ad illam horam- Quam horam? ait illa. -Nullam, respondit peregrinus, donec perveneo, ad-Quem locum, -obsecro? ait illa-Peregrinus nil respondens mulo conscenso discessit. 

[Page 3]
SLAWKENBERGIUS's Tale.
It was one cool refreshing evening, at the close of a very sultry day, in the latter end of the month of August, when a stranger, mounted upon a dark mule, with a small cloak-bag behind him, containing a few shirts, a pair of shoes, and a crimson-sattin pair of breeches, entred the town of Strasburg. 
He told the centinel, who questioned him as he entered the gates, that he had been at the promontory of Noses-was going on to Frankfort-and should be back again at Strasburg that day month, in his way to the borders of Crim-Tartary. 

[Page 5]
The centinel looked up into the stranger's face-never saw such a nose in his life! 
-I have made a very good venture of it, quoth the stranger-so slipping his wrist out of the loop of a black ribban, to which a short scymetar was hung: He put his hand into his pocket, and with great courtesy touching the forepart of his cap with his left-hand, as he extended his right-he put a florin into the centinel's hand, and passed on. 
It grieves me, said the centinel, speaking to a little dwarfish bandy-leg'd drummer, that so courteous a soul should have lost his scabbard-he cannot travel without one to his scymetar, and will not be able to get a scabbard to fit it in all 
[Page 7]
Strasburg. -I never had one, replied the stranger, looking back to the centinel, and putting his hand up to his cap as he spoke-I carry it, continued he thus-holding up his naked scymetar, his mule moving on slowly all the time, on purpose to defend my nose. 
It is well worth it, gentle stranger, replied the centinel. 
-'Tis not worth a single stiver, said the bandy-leg'd drummer-'tis a nose of parchment. 
As I am a true catholic-except that it is six times as big-'tis a nose, said the centinel, like my own. 
-I heard it crackle, said the drummer. 

[Page 9]
By dunder, said the centinel, I saw it bleed. 
What a pity, cried the bandy-legg'd drummer, we did not both touch it! 
At the very time that this dispute was maintaining by the centinel and the drummer-was the same point debating betwixt a trumpeter and a trumpeter's wife, who were just then coming up, and had stopped to see the stranger pass by. 
Benedicity! -What a nose! 'tis as long, said the trumpeter's wife, as a trumpet. 
And of the same mettle, said the trumpeter, as you hear by its sneezing. 

[Page 11]
-'Tis a soft as a flute, said she. 
-'Tis brass, said the trumpeter. 
-'Tis a pudding's end-said his wife. 
I tell thee again, said the trumpeter, 'tis a brazen nose. 
I'll know the bottom of it, said the trumpeter's wife, for I will touch it with my finger before I sleep. 
The stranger's mule moved on at so slow a rate, that he heard every word of the dispute, not only betwixt the centinel and the drummer; but betwixt the trumpeter and the trumpeter's wife. 
No!dropping his reins upon his mule's neck, and laying both his 
[Page 13]
hands upon his breast, the one over the other in a saint-like position (his mule going on easily all the time) No!looking up,-I am not such a debtor to the world-slandered and disappointed as I have been--as to give it that conviction-no!my nose shall never be touched whilst heaven gives me strength-To do what? said a burgomaster's wife. 
The stranger took no notice of the burgomaster's wife-he was making a vow to saint Nicolas; which done, having uncrossed his arms with the same solemnity with which he crossed them, he took up the reins of his bridle with his left-hand, and putting his right-hand into his bosom, with his scymetar hanging loosely to the wrist of it, he rode on as slowly as one foot of the mule could follow 
[Page 15]
another thro' the principal streets of Strasburg, till chance brought him to the great inn in the market-place over-against the church. 
The moment the stranger alighted, he ordered his mule to be led into the stable, and his cloak-bag to be brought in; then opening, and taking out of it, his crimson-sattin breeches, with a silver-fringed -(appendage to them, which I dare not translate)-he put his breeches, with his fringed cod-piece on, and forthwith with his short scymetar in his hand, walked out to the grand parade. 
The stranger had just taken three turns upon the parade, when he perceived the trumpeter's wife at the opposite side of it-so turning short, in pain lest his nose should be attempted, he instantly went 
[Page 17]
back to his inn--undressed himself, packed up his crimson-sattin breeches, &c. in his cloak-bag, and called for his mule. 
I am going forwards, said the stranger, for Franckfort--and shall be back at Strasburg this day month. 
I hope, continued the stranger, stroking down the face of his mule with his left-hand as he was going to mount it, that you have been kind to this faithful slave of mine--it has carried me and my cloak-bag, continued he, tapping the mule's back, above six hundred leagues. 
-'Tis a long journey, Sir, replied the master of the inn--unless a man has great business. -Tut! tut! said the stranger, I have been at the promontory of 
[Page 19]
Noses; and have got me one of the goodliest and jolliest, thank heaven, that ever fell to a single man's lot. 
Whilst the stranger was giving this odd account of himself, the master of the inn and his wife kept both their eyes fixed full upon the stranger's nose- By saint Radagunda, said the inn-keeper's wife to herself, there is more of it than in any dozen of the largest noses put together in all Strasburg! is it not,whispering her husband in his ear, is it not a noble nose? 
'Tis an imposture, my dear, said the master of the inn-'tis a false nose.- 
'Tis a true nose, said his wife.- 
'Tis made of fir-tree, said he,-I smell the turpentine.- 

[Page 21]
There's a pimple on it, said she. 
'Tis a dead nose, replied the inn-keeper. 
'Tis a live nose, and if I am alive myself, said the inn-keeper's wife, I will touch it. 
I have made a vow to saint Nicolas this day, said the stranger, that my nose shall not be touched till-Here the stranger, suspending his voice, looked up- Till when? said she hastily. 
It never shall be touched,clasping his hands and bringing them close to his breast, till that hour. - What hour? cried the inn-keeper's wife. --Never!-never! said the stranger, never tell I am got-For heaven sake into what place? said she. -The stranger rode away without saying a word. 

[Page 22]
The stranger had not got half a league on his way towards Frankfort, before all the city of Strasburg was in an uproar about his nose. The Compline-bells were just ringing to call the Strasburgers to their devotions, and shut up the duties of the day in prayer:--no soul in all Strasburg heard 'em-the city was like a swarm of bees--men, women, and children (the Compline-bells tinkling all the time) flying here and there-in at one door, out at another-this way and that way-long ways and cross ways- up one street, down another street-in at this ally, out at that-did you see it? did you see it? did you see it? O! did you see it?-who saw it? who did see it? for mercy's sake, who saw it? 
Alack o'day! I was at vespers! --I was washing, I was starching, I was 
[Page 23]
scouring, I was quilting-God help me! I never saw it-I never touch'd it!- would I had been a centinel, a bandy-leg'd drummer, a trumpeter, a trumpeter's wife, was the general cry and lamentation in every street and corner of Strasburg. 
Whilst all this confusion and disorder triumphed throughout the great city of Strasburg, was the courteous stranger going on as gently upon his mule in his way to Frankfort, as if he had had no concern at all in the affair-talking all the way he rode in broken sentences, sometimes to his mule-sometimes to himself- sometimes to his Julia. 
O Julia, my lovely Julia!-nay I cannot stop to let thee bite that thistle-that ever she suspected tongue of a rival should have 
[Page 24]
robbed me of enjoyment when I was upon the point of tasting it.- 
-Pugh!-'tis nothing but a thistle- never mind it-thou shalt have a better supper at night.- 
-Banish'd from my country-my friends-from thee.- 
Poor devil, thou'rt sadly tired with thy journey!-come-get on a little faster-there's nothing in my cloak-bag but two shirts-a crimson-sattin pair of breeches, and a fringed-Dear Julia! 
-But why to Frankfort?-is it that there is a hand unfelt, which secretly is conducting me through these meanders and unsuspected tracts!- 

[Page 25]
-Stumbling! by saint Nicolas! every step--why at this rate we shall be all night in getting in- 
-To happiness-or am I to be the sport of fortune and slander-destined to be driven forth unconvicted-unheard- untouched-if so, why did I not stay at Strasburg, where justice-but I had sworn! -Come, thou shalt drink-to St. Nicholas-O Julia! --What dost thou prick up thy ears at?-'tis nothing but a man, &c.- 
The stranger rode on communing in this manner with his mule and Julia- till he arrived at his inn, where, as soon as he arrived, he alighted-saw his mule, as he had promised it, taken good care of-took off his cloak-bag, with his crimson-sattin breeches, &c. in it- 
[Page 26]
called for an omelet to his supper, went to his bed about twelve o'clock, and in five minutes fell fast asleep. 
It was about the same hour when the tumult in Strasburg being abated for that night,-the Strasburgers had all got quietly into their beds-but not like the stranger, for the rest either of their minds or bodies; queen Mab, like an elf as she was, had taken the stranger's nose, and without reduction of its bulk, had that night been at the pains of slitting and dividing it into as many noses of different cuts and fashions, as there were heads in Strasburg to hold them. The abbess of Quedlingberg, who, with the four great dignitaries of her chapter, the prioress, the deaness, the sub-chantress, and senior canoness, had that week come to Strasburg to consult the university 
[Page 27]
upon a case of conscience relating to their placket holes-was ill all the night. 
The courteous stranger's nose had got perched upon the top of the pineal gland of her brain, and made such rousing work in the fancies of the four great dignitaries of her chapter, they could not get a wink of sleep the whole night thro' for it--there was no keeping a limb still amongst them-in short, they got up like so many ghosts. 
The penitentiaries of the third order of saint Francis--the nuns of mount Calvary-the Præmonstratenses-the, Clunienses * 8 -the Carthusians, and all the severer orders of nuns who lay that night in blankets or hair-cloth, were still 
[Page 28]
in a worse condition than the abbess of Quedlingberg-by tumbling and tossing, and tossing and tumbling from one side of their beds to the other the whole night long-the several sisterhoods had scratch'd and mawl'd themselves all to death-they got out of their beds almost flead alive-every body thought saint Antony had visited them for probation with his fire--they had never once, in short, shut their eyes the whole night long from vespers to matins. 
The nuns of saint Ursula acted the wisest-they never attempted to go to bed at all. 
The dean of Strasburg, the prebendaries, the capitulars and domiciliars (capitularly assembled in the morning to consider the case of butter'd buns) all wished 
[Page 29]
they had followed the nuns of saint Ursula's example. --In the hurry and confusion every thing had been in the night before, the bakers had all forgot to lay their leaven-there were no butter'd buns to be had for breakfast in all Strasburg-the whole close of the cathedral was in one eternal commotion-such a cause of restlessness and disquietude, and such a zealous inquiry into the cause of that restlessness, had never happened in Strasburg, since Martin Luther, with his doctrines, had turned the city up-side down. 
If the stranger's nose took this liberty of thrusting itself thus into the dishes * 9 of 
[Page 30]
religious orders, &c. what a carnival did his nose make of it, in those of the laity! -'tis more than my pen, worn to the stump as it is, has power to describe; tho' I acknowledge, (cries Slawkenbergius, with more gaiety of thought than I could have expected from him) that there is many a good simile now subsisting in the world which might give my countrymen some idea of it; but at the close of such a folio as this, wrote for their sakes, and in which I have spent the greatest part of my life-tho' I own to them the simile is in being, yet would it not be unreasonable in them to expect I should have either time or inclination to search for it? Let it suffice to say, that the riot and disorder it occasioned in the Strasburgers fantacies was so general-such an overpowering mastership had it got of all the faculties of the Strasburgers minds-so 
[Page 31]
many strange things, with equal confidence on all sides, and with equal eloquence in all places, were spoken and sworn to concerning it, that turned the whole stream of all discourse and wonder towards it-every soul, good and bad- rich and poor-learned and unlearned- doctor and student-mistress and maid- gentle and simple-nun's flesh and woman's flesh in Strasburg spent their time in hearing tidings about it-every eye in Strasburg languished to see it- every finger-every thumb in Strasburg burned to touch it. 
Now what might add, if any thing may be thought necessary to add to so vehement a desire-was this, that the centinel, the bandy-legg'd drummer, the trumpeter, the trumpeter's wife, the burgo-master's widow, the master of the 
[Page 32]
inn, and the master of the inn's wife, how widely soever they all differed every one from another in their testimonies and descriptions of the stranger's nose- they all agreed together in two points- namely, that he was gone to Frankfort, and would not return to Strasburg till that day month; and secondly, whether his nose was true or false, that the stranger himself was one of the most perfect paragons of beauty-the finest made man! -the most genteel!-the most generous of his purse-the most courteous in his carriage that had ever entered the gates of Strasburg-that as he rode, with his scymetar slung loosely to his wrist, thro' the streets-and walked with his crimson-sattin breeches across the parade-'twas with so sweet an air of careless modesty, and so manly withal-as would have put the heart in jeopardy (had his nose not 
[Page 33]
stood in his way) of every virgin who had cast her eyes upon him. 
I call not upon that heart which is a stranger to the throbs and yearnings of curiosity, so excited to justify the abbess of Quedlingberg, the prioress, the deaness and subchantress for sending at noon-day for the trumpeter's wife: she went through the streets of Strasburg with her husband's trumpet in her hand;- the best apparatus the straitness of the time would allow her, for the illustration of her theory-she staid no longer than three days. 
The centinel and the bandy-legg'd drummer!-nothing on this side of old Athens could equal them! they read their lectures under the city gates to comers and goers, with all the pomp 
[Page 34]
of a Chrysippus and a Crantor in their porticos. 
The master of the inn, with his ostler on his left-hand, read his also in the same stile,-under the portico or gateway of his stable-yard-his wife, hers more privately in a back room: all flocked to their lectures; not promiscuously-but to this or that, as is ever the way, as faith and credulity marshal'd them-in a word, each Strasburger came crouding for intelligence- and every Strasburger had the intelligence he wanted. 
Tis worth remarking, for the benefit of all demonstrators in natural philosophy, &c. that as soon as the trumpeter's wife had finished the abbess of Quedlinberg's private lecture, and had begun to read in public, which she did upon a 
[Page 35]
stool in the middle of the great parade- she incommoded the other demonstrators mainly, by gaining incontinently the most fashionable part of the city of Strasburg for her auditory-But when a demonstrator in philosophy (cries Slawkenbergius) has a trumpet for an apparatus, pray what rival in science can pretend to be heard besides him? 
Whilst the unlearned, thro' these conduits of intelligence, were all busied in getting down to the bottom of the well, where Truth keeps her little court- were the learned in their way as busy in pumping her up thro' the conduits of dialect induction-they concerned themselves not with facts-they reasoned- 
Not one profession had thrown more light upon this subject than the faculty- 
[Page 36]
had not all their disputes about it run into the affair of Wens and œdematous swellings, they could not keep clear of them for their bloods and souls-the stranger's nose had nothing to do either with wens or œdematous swellings. 
It was demonstrated however very satisfactorily, that such a ponderous mass of heterogenious matter could not be congested and conglomerated to the nose, whilst the infant was in Utero, without destroying the statical balance of the fœtus, and throwing it plump upon its head nine months before the time.- 
-The opponents granted the theory- they denied the consequences. 
And if a suitable provision of veins, arteries, &c. said they, was not laid in, 
[Page 37]
for the due nourishment of such a nose, in the very first stamina and rudiments of its formation before it came into the world (bating the case of Wens) it could not regularly grow and be sustained afterwards. 
This was all answered by a dissertation upon nutriment, and the effect which nutriment had in extending the vessels, and in the increase and prolongation of the muscular parts to the greatest growth and expansion imaginable-In the triumph of which theory, they went so far as to affirm, that there was no cause in nature, why a nose might not grow to the size of the man himself. 
The respondents satisfied the world this event could never happen to them so long as a man had but one stomach and 
[Page 38]
one pair of lungs-For the stomach, said they, being the only organ destined for the reception of food, and turning it into chyle,-and the lungs the only engine of sanguification-it could possibly work off no more, than what the appetite brought it: or admitting the possibility of a man's overloading his stomach, nature had set bounds however to his lungs-the engine was of a determined size and strength, and could elaborate but a certain quantity in a given time-that is, it could produce just as much blood as was sufficient for one single man, and no more; so that, if there was as much nose as man-they proved a mortification must necessarily ensue; and forasmuch as there could not be a support for both, that the nose must either fall off from the man, or the man inevitably fall off from his nose. 

[Page 39]
Nature accommodates herself to these emergencies, cried the opponents-else what do you say to the case of a whole stomach-a whole pair of lungs, and but half a man, when both his legs have been unfortunately shot off?- 
He dies of a plethora, said they-or must spit blood, and in a fortnight or three weeks go off in a consumption- 
-It happens otherways-replied the opponents.- 
It ought not, said they. 
The more curious and intimate inquirers after nature and her doings, though they went hand in hand a good way together, yet they all divided about the nose at last, almost as much as the faculty itself. 

[Page 40]
They amicably laid it down, that there was a just and geometrical arrangement and proportion of the several parts of the human frame to its several destinations, offices, and functions, which could not be transgressed but within certain limits -that nature, though she sported-she sported within a certain circle;-and they could not agree about the diameter of it. 
The logicians stuck much closer to the point before them than any of the classes of the literati;-they began and ended with the word nose; and had it not been for a petitio principii, which one of the ablest of them ran his head against in the beginning of the combat, the whole controversy had been settled at once. 
A nose, argued the logician, cannot bleed without blood-and not only blood 
[Page 41]
-but blood circulating in it to supply the phænomenon with a succession of drops-(a stream being but a quicker succession of drops, that is included, said he)-Now death, continued the logician, being nothing but the stagnation of the blood- 
I deny the definition-Death is the separation of the soul from the body, said his antagonist-Then we don't agree about our weapon, said the logician- Then there is an end of the dispute, replied the antagonist. 
The civilians were still more concise; what they offered being more in the nature of a decree-than a dispute. 
-Such a monstrous nose, said they, had it been a true nose, could not possibly have been suffered in civil society-and if 
[Page 42]
false-to impose upon society with such false signs and tokens, was a still greater violation of its rights, and must have had still less mercy shewn it. 
The only objection to this was, that if it proved any thing, it proved the stranger's nose was neither true nor false. 
This left room for the controversy to go on. It was maintained by the advocates of the ecclesiastic court, that there was nothing to inhibit a decree, since the stranger ex mero motu had confessed he had been at the Promontory of Noses, and had got one of the goodliest, &c. &c. -To this it was answered, it was impossible there should be such a place as the Promontory of Noses, and the learned be ignorant where it lay. The commissary of the bishop of Strasburg undertook the 
[Page 43]
advocates, explained this matter in a treatise upon proverbial phrases, shewing them, that the Promontory of Noses was a mere allegoric expression, importing no more than that nature had given him a long nose: in proof of which, with great learning, he cited the underwritten authorities * 10 , which had decided the point 
[Page 44]
incontestably, had it not appeared that a dispute about some franchises of dean and chapter-lands had been determined by it nineteen years before. 
It happened-I must not say unluckily for Truth, because they were giving her a lift another way in so doing; that the two universities of Strasburg-the Lutheran, founded in the year 1538 by Jacobus Sturmius, counsellor of the senate,-and the Popish, founded by Leopold, arch-duke of Austria, were, during all this time, employing the whole depth of their knowledge (except just what the affair of the abbess of Quedlinburg's placket-holes required)-in determining the point of Martin Luther's damnation. 
The Popish doctors had undertaken to demonstrate a priori; that from the necessary 
[Page 45]
influence of the planets on the twenty-second day of October 1483- when the moon was in the twelfth house -Jupiter, Mars, and Venus in the third, the Sun, Saturn, and Mercury all got together in the fourth-that he must in course, and unavoidably be a damn'd man-and that his doctrines, by a direct corollary, must be damn'd doctrines too. 
By inspection into his horoscope, where five planets were in coition all at once with scorpio * 11 (in reading this my father 
[Page 46]
would always shake his head) in the ninth house which the Arabians allotted to religion-it appeared that Martin Luther did not care one stiver about the matter-and that from the horoscope directed to the conjunction of Mars- they made it plain likewise he must die cursing and blaspheming-with the blast of which his soul (being steep'd in guilt) sailed before the wind, into the lake of hell fire. 
The little objection of the Lutheran doctors to this, was, that it must certainly be the soul of another man, born Oct. 22,   83, which was forced to sail down before the wind in that manner-inasmuch as it appeared from the register of Islaben in the county of Mansselt, that Luther was not born in the year 1483, but in 84; and not on the 22d day of October, 
[Page 47]
but on the 10th of November, the eve of Martinmas-day, from whence he had the name of Martin. 
[-I must break off my translation for a moment; for if I did not, I know I should no more be able to shut my eyes in bed, than the abbess of Quedlinburg- It is to tell the reader, that my father never read this passage of Slawkenbergius to my uncle Toby but with triumph-not over my uncle Toby, for he never opposed him in it-but over the whole world. 
-Now you see, brother Toby, he would say, looking up, ""- had Luther here been called by any other name but Martin, he would have been damned to all eternity-Not that I look upon Martin, he would add, as a good 
[Page 48]
name-far from it-'tis something better than a neutral, and but a little-yet little as it is, you see it was of some service to him. 
My father knew the weakness of this prop to his hypothesis, as well as the best logician could shew him-yet so strange is the weakness of man at the same time, as it fell in his way, he could not for his life but make use of it; and it was certainly for this reason, that though there are many stories in Hafen Slawkenbergius's Decads full as entertaining as this I am translating, yet there is not one amongst them which my father read over with half the delight-it flattered two of his strangest hypotheses together-his Names and his Noses-I will be bold to say, he might have read all the books in the Alexandrian library, had not fate taken 
[Page 49]
other care of them, and not have met with a book or a passage in one, which hit two such nails as these upon the head at one stroke.] 
The two universities of Strasburg were hard tugging at this affair of Luther's navigation. The Protestant doctors had demonstrated, that he had not sailed right before the wind, as the Popish doctors had pretended; and as every one knew there was no sailing full in the teeth of it,-they were going to settle, in case he had sailed, how many points he was off; whether Martin had doubled the cape, or had fallen upon a lee-shore; and no doubt, as it was an enquiry of much edification, at least to those who understood this sort of NAVIGATION, they had gone on with it in spite of the size of the stranger's nose, had not the size of the stranger's 
[Page 50]
nose drawn off the attention of the world from what they were about-it was their business to follow.- 
The abbess of Quedlinburg and her four dignitaries was no stop; for the enormity of the stranger's nose running full as much in their fancies as their case of conscience -The affair of their placket-holes kept cold-In a word, the printers were ordered to distribute their types-all controversies dropp'd. 
'Twas a square cap with a silk tassel upon the crown of it-to a nut shell- to have guessed on which side of the nose the two universities would split. 
'Tis above reason, cried the doctors on one side. 
'Tis below reason, cried the others. 
'Tis faith, cried the one. 

[Page 51]
'Tis a fiddle-stick, said the other. 
'Tis possible, cried the one. 
'Tis impossible, said the other. 
God's power is infinite, cried the Nosarians, he can do any thing. 
He can do nothing, replied the Antinosarians, which implies contradictions. 
He can make matter think, said the Nosarians. 
As certainly as you can make a velvet cap out of a sow's ear, replied the Antinosarians. 
He cannot make two and two five, replied the Popish doctors. -'Tis false, said their opponents.- 
Infinite power is infinite power, said the doctors who maintained the reality 
[Page 52]
of the nose. -It extends only to all possible things, replied the Lutherans. 
By God in heaven, cried the Popish doctors, he can make a nose, if he thinks fit, as big as the steeple of Strasburg. 
Now the steeple of Strasburg being the biggest and the tallest church-steeple to be seen in the whole world, the Antinosarians denied that a nose of 575 geometrical feet in length could be worn, at least by a middle-siz'd man-The Popish doctors swore it could-The Lutheran doctors said No;-it could not. 
This at once started a new dispute, which they pursued a great way upon the extent and limitation of the moral and natural attributes of God-That controversy led them naturally into Thomas 
[Page 53]
Aquinas, and Thomas Aquinas to the devil. 
The stranger's nose was no more heard of in the dispute-it just served as a frigate to launch them into the gulph of school-divinity, -and then they all sailed before the wind. 
Heat is in proportion to the want of true knowledge. 
The controversy about the attributes, &c. instead of cooling, on the contrary had inflamed the Strasburgers imaginations to a most inordinate degree-The less they understood of the matter, the greater was their wonder about it-they were left in all the distresses of desire unsatisfied-saw their doctors, the Parchmentarians, the Brassarians, the Turpentarians, on one side-the Popish doctors 
[Page 54]
on the other, like Pantagruel and his companions in quest of the oracle of the bottle, all embarked and out of sight. 
-The poor Strasburgers left upon the beach! 
-What was to be done? -No delay -the uproar increased-every one in disorder -the city gates set open.- 
Unfortunate Strasburgers! was there in the store-house of nature-was there in the lumber-rooms of learning-was there in the great arsenal of chance, one single engine left undrawn forth to torture your curiosities, and stretch your desires, which was not pointed by the hand of fate to play upon your hearts? -I dip not my pen into my ink to excuse the surrender of yourselves-'tis to write your 
[Page 55]
panegyrick. Shew me a city so macerated with expectation-who neither eat, or drank, or slept, or prayed, or hearkned to the calls either of religion or nature for seven and twenty days together, who could have held out one day longer. 
On the twenty-eighth the courteous stranger had promised to return to Strasburg. 
Seven thousand coaches (Slawkenbergius must certainly have made some mistake in his numerical characters) 7000 coaches-15000 single horse chairs- 20000 waggons, crouded as full as they could all hold with senators, counsellors, syndicks-beguines, widows, wives, virgins, canons, concubines, all in their coaches-The abbess of Quedlinburg, with the prioress, the deaness and sub-chantress 
[Page 56]
leading the procession in one coach, and the dean of Strasburg, with the four great dignitaries of his chapter on her left-hand -the rest following higglety-pigglety as they could; some on horseback- some on foot-some led-some driven- some down the Rhine-some this way- some that-all set out at sun-rise to meet the courteous stranger on the road. 
Haste we now towards the catastrophe of my tale-I say Catastrophe (cries Slawkenbergius) inasmuch as a tale, with parts rightly disposed, not only rejoiceth (gaudet) in the Catastrophe and Peripeitia of a Drama, but rejoiceth moreover in all the essential and integrant parts of it- it has its Protasis, Epistasis, Catastasis, its Catastrophe or Peripeitia growing one out of the other in it, in the order Aristotle first planted them-without which a tale 
[Page 57]
had better never be told at all, says Slawkenbergius, but be kept to a man's self. 
In all my ten tales, in all my ten decads, have I, Slawkenbergius, tied down every tale of them as tightly to this rule, as I have done this of the stranger and his nose. 
-From his first parley with the centinel, to his leaving the city of Strasburg, after pulling off his crimson-sattin pair of breeches, is the Protasis or first entrance -where the characters of the Personæ Dramatis are just touched in, and the subject slightly begun. 
The Epitasis, wherein the action is more fully entered upon and heightened, till it arrives at its state or height called 
[Page 58]
the Catastasis, and which usually takes up the 2d and 3d act, is included within that busy period of my tale, betwixt the first night's uproar about the nose, to the conclusion of the trumpeter's wife's lectures upon it in the middle of the grand parade; and from the first embarking of the learned in the dispute- to the doctors finally sailing away, and leaving the Strasburgers upon the beach in distress, is the Catastasis or the ripening of the incidents and passions for their bursting forth in the fifth act. 
This commences with the setting out of the Strasburgers in the Frankfort road, and terminates in unwinding the labyrinth and bringing the hero out of a state of agitation (as Aristotle calls it) to a state of rest and quietness. 

[Page 59]
This, says Hafen Slawkenbergius, constitutes the catastrophe or peripeitia of my tale-and that is the part of it I am going to relate. 
We left the stranger behind the curtain asleep-he enters now upon the stage. 
-What dost thou prick up thy ears at?-'tis nothing but a man upon a horse -was the last word the stranger uttered to his mule. It was not proper then to tell the reader, that the mule took his master's word for it; and without any more ifs or ands, let the traveller and his horse pass by. 
The traveller was hastening with all diligence to get to Strasburg that night -What a fool am I, said the traveller to himself, when he had rode about a 
[Page 60]
league farther, to think of getting into Strasburg this night-Strasburg!-the great Strasburg!-Strasburg, the capital of all Alsatia! Strasburg, an imperial city! Strasburg, a sovereign state! Strasburg, garrisoned with five thousand of the best troops in all the world! -Alas! if I was at the gates of Strasburg this moment, I could not gain admittance into it for a ducat,-nay a ducat and half- 'tis too much-better go back to the last inn I have passed-than lie I know not where-or give I know not what. The traveller, as he made these reflections in his mind, turned his horse's head about, and three minutes after the stranger had been conducted into his chamber, he arrived at the same inn. 
-We have bacon in the house, said the host, and bread-and till eleven o'clock this night had three eggs in it- 
[Page 61]
but a stranger, who arrived an hour ago, has had them dressed into an omlet, and we have nothing.- 
-Alas! said the traveller, harrassed as I am, I want nothing but a bed-I have one as soft as is in Alsatia, said the host. 
-The stranger, continued he, should have slept in it, for 'tis my best bed, but upon the score of his nose-He has got a defluxion, said the traveller-Not that I know, cried the host-But 'tis a camp-bed, and Jacinta,looking towards the maid, imagined there was not room in it to turn his nose in-Why so? cried the traveller starting back-It is so long a nose, replied the host-The traveller fixed his eyes upon Jacinta, then upon the ground-kneeled upon his right 
[Page 62]
knee-had just got his hand laid upon his breast-Trifle not with my anxiety,rising up again-'Tis no trifle, said Jacinta, 'tis the most glorious nose! -The traveller fell upon his knee again- laid his hand upon his breast-thenlooking up to heaven! thou hast conducted me to the end of my pilgrimage -'Tis Diego! 
The traveller was the brother of the Julia, so often invoked that night by the stranger as he rode from Strasburg upon his mule; and was come, on her part, in quest of him. He had accompanied his sister from Valadolid across the Pyrenean mountains thro' France, and had many an entangled skein to wind off in pursuit of him thro' the many meanders and abrupt turnings of a lover's thorny tracks. 

[Page 63]
-Julia had sunk under it-and had not been able to go a step farther than to Lyons, where, with the many disquietudes of a tender heart, which all talk of-but few feel-she sicken'd, but had just strength to write a letter to Diego; and having conjured her brother never to see her face till he had found him out, and put the letter into his hands, Julia took to her bed. 
Fernandez (for that was her brother's name)-tho' the camp-bed was as soft as any one in Alsace, yet he could not shut his eyes in it. -As soon as it was day, he rose, and hearing Diego was risen too, he enter'd his chamber, and discharged his sister's commission. 
The letter was as follows: 

[Page 64]

Seig. Diego. 
""How could I know so little of myself, when I sent my Duena to forbid your coming more under my lattice? or how could I know so little of you, Diego, as to imagine you would not have staid one day in Valadolid to have given ease to my doubts? -Was I to be abandoned, Diego, because I was deceived? or was it kind to take me at my word, whether my suspicions were just or no, and leave me, as you did, a prey to much uncertainty and sorrow. 

[Page 65]
""He will tell you, when she heard of your departure-how her spirits deserted her-how her heart sicken'd- how piteously she mourn'd-how low she hung her head. O Diego! how many weary steps has my brother's pity led me by the hand languishing to trace out yours! how far has desire carried me beyond strength-and how 
[Page 66]
oft have I fainted by the way, and sunk into his arms, with only power to cry out-O my Diego! 
"" 
She could proceed no farther. 
Slawkenbergius supposes the word intended was unconvinced, but her strength would not enable her to finish her letter. 
The heart of the courteous Diego overflowed as he read the letter-he ordered his mule forthwith and Fernandez's 
[Page 67]
horse to be saddled; and as no vent in prose is equal to that of poetry in such conflicts-chance, which as often directs us to remedies as to diseases, having thrown a piece of charcoal into the window -Diego availed himself of it, and whilst the ostler was getting ready his mule, he eased his mind against the wall as follows. 

ODE.

Harsh and untuneful are the notes of love, 
   Unless my Julia strikes the key, 
Her hand alone can touch the part, 
   Whose dulcet movement charms the heart, 
   And governs all the man with sympathetic sway. 
2d.

   O Julia!


[Page 68]
The lines were very natural-for they were nothing at all to the purpose, says Slawkenbergius, and 'tis a pity there were no more of them; but whether it was that Seig. Diego was slow in composing verses-or the ostler quick in saddling mules-is not averred; certain it was, that Diego's mule and Fernandez's horse were ready at the door of the inn, before Diego was ready for his second stanza; so without staying to finish his ode, they both mounted, sallied forth, passed the Rhine, traversed Alsace, shaped their course towards Lyons, and before the Strasburgers and the abbess of Quedlinberg had set out on their cavalcade, had Fernandez, Diego, and his Julia, crossed the Pyrenean mountains, and got safe to Valadolid. 

[Page 69]
'Tis needless to inform the geographical reader, that when Diego was in Spain, it was not possible to meet the courteous stranger in the Frankfort road; it is enough to say, that of all restless desires, curiosity being the strongest-the Strasburgers felt the full force of it; and that for three days and nights they were tossed to and fro in the Frankfort road, with the tempestuous fury of this passion, before they could submit to return home- When alas! an event was prepared for them, of all others the most grievous that could befal a free people. 
As this revolution of the Strasburgers affairs is often spoken of, and little understood, I will, in ten words, says Slawkenbergius, give the world an explanation of it, and with it put an end to my tale. 

[Page 70]
Every body knows of the grand system of Universal Monarchy, wrote by order of Mons. Colbert, and put in manuscript into the hands of Lewis the fourteenth, in the year 1664. 
'Tis as well known, that one branch out of many of that system, was the getting possession of Strasburg, to favour an entrance at all times into Suabia, in order to disturb the quiet of Germany- and that in consequence of this plan, Strasburg unhappily fell at length into their hands. 
It is the lot of few to trace out the true springs of this and such like revolutions -The vulgar look too high for them-Statesmen look too low-Truth (for once) lies in the middle. 

[Page 71]
What a fatal thing is the popular pride of a free city! cries one historian-The Strasburgers deemed it a diminution of their freedom to receive an imperial garrison -and so fell a prey to a French one. 
The fate, says another, of the Strasburgers, may be a warning to all free people to save their money-They anticipated their revenues-brought themselves under taxes, exhausted their strength, and in the end became so weak a people, they had not strength to keep their gates shut, and so the French pushed them open. 
Alas! alas! cries Slawkenbergius, 'twas not the French-'twas CURIOSITY pushed them open-The French indeed, who are ever upon the catch, when they saw the Strasburgers, men, women, and children, 
[Page 72]
all marched out to follow the stranger's nose-each man followed his own, and marched in. 
Trade and manufactures have decayed and gradually grown down ever since- but not from any cause which commercial heads have assigned; for it is owing to this only, that Noses have ever so run in their heads, that the Strasburgers could not follow their business. 
Alas! alas! cries Slawkenbergius, making an exclamation-it is not the first- and I fear will not be the last fortress that has been either won-or lost by Noses. 

The END of Slawkenbergius's Tale.


[Page 73]

CHAP. I. 
With all this learning upon Noses running perpetually in my father's facy-with so many family prejudices -and ten decads of such tales running on for ever along with them-how was it possible with such exquisite-was it a true nose? -That a man with such exquisite feelings as my father had, could bear the shock at all below stairs-or indeed above stairs, in any other posture, but the very posture I have described. 
-Throw yourself down upon the bed, a dozen times-taking care only to place a looking-glass first in a chair on one side of it, before you do it-But was the 
[Page 74]
stranger's nose a true nose-or was it a false one? 
To tell that before-hand, madam, would be to do injury to one of the best tales in the christian world; and that is the tenth of the tenth decad which immediately follows this. 
This tale, crieth Slawkenbergius somewhat exultingly, has been reserved by me for the concluding tale of my whole work; knowing right well, that when I shall have told it, and my reader shall have read it thro'-'twould be even high time for both of us to shut up the book; inasmuch, continues Slawkenbergius, as I know of no tale which could possibly ever go down after it. 
-'Tis a tale indeed! 

[Page 75]
This sets out with the first interview in the inn at Lyons, when Fernandez left the courteous stranger and his sister Julia alone in her chamber, and is overwritten, 
The Intricacies of Diego and Julia.
Heavens! thou art a strange creature Slawkenbergius! what a whimsical view of the involutions of the heart of woman hast thou opened! how this can ever be translated, and yet if this specimen of Slawkenbergius's tales, and the exquisitiveness of his moral should please the world-translated shall a couple of volumes be. -Else, how this can ever be translated into good English, I have no sort of conception. -There seems in some passages to want a sixth sense to do it 
[Page 76]
rightly. -What can he mean by the lambent pupilability of slow, low, dry chat, five notes below the natural tone, -which you know, madam, is little more than a whisper? The moment I pronounced the words, I could perceive an attempt towards a vibration in the strings, about the region of the heart. - The brain made no acknowledgment. - There's often no good understanding betwixt 'em. -I felt as if I understood it. -I had no ideas. -The movement could not be without cause. -I'm lost. I can make nothing of it,-unless, may it please your worships, the voice, in that case being little more than a whisper, unavoidably forces the eyes to approach not only within six inches of each other-but to look into the pupils-is not that dangerous? -But it can't be avoided-for to look up to the 
[Page 77]
cieling, in that case the two chins unavoidably meet-and to look down into each others laps, the foreheads come into immediate contact, which at once puts an end to the conference-I mean to the sentimental part of it. -What is left, madam, is not worth stooping for. 
CHAP. II. 
My father lay stretched across the bed as still as if the hand of death had pushed him down, for a full hour and a half, before he began to play upon the floor with the toe of that foot which hung over the bed-side; my uncle Toby's heart was a pound lighter for it. -In a few moments, his left-hand, the knuckles of which had all the time reclined upon the handle of the chamber-pot, came to its feeling-he thrust it a little more 
[Page 78]
within the valance-drew up his hand, when he had done, into his bosom-gave a hem! -My good uncle Toby, with infinite pleasure, answered it; and full gladly would have ingrafted a sentence of consolation upon the opening it afforded; but having no talents, as I said, that way, and fearing moreover that he might set out with something which might make a bad matter worse, he contented himself with resting his chin placidly upon the cross of his crutch. 
Now whether the compression shortened my uncle Toby's face into a more pleasureable oval,-or that the philanthropy of his heart, in seeing his brother beginning to emerge out of the sea of his afflictions, had braced up his muscles,- so that the compression upon his chin only doubled the benignity which was 
[Page 79]
there before; is not hard to decide. -My father, in turning his eyes, was struck with such a gleam of sun-shine in his face, as melted down the sullenness of his grief in a moment. 
He broke silence as follows. 
CHAP. III. 
Did ever man, brother Toby, cried my father, raising himself up upon his elbow, and turning himself round to the opposite side of the bed where my uncle Toby was sitting in his old fringed chair, with his chin resting upon his crutch-did ever a poor unfortunate man, brother Toby, cried my father, receive so many lashes? -The most I ever saw given, quoth my uncle Toby, (ringing 
[Page 80]
the bell at the bed's head for Trim) was to a grenadier, I think in Makay's regiment. 
-Had my uncle Toby shot a bullet thro' my father's heart, he could not have fallen down with his nose upon the quilt more suddenly. 
Bless me! said my uncle Toby. 
CHAP. IV. 
Was it Makay's regiment, quoth my uncle Toby, where the poor grenadier was so unmercifully whipp'd at Bruges about the ducats. -O Christ! he was innocent! cried Trim with a deep sigh. -And he was whipp'd, may it please your honour, almost to death's 
[Page 81]
door. -They had better have shot him outright as he begg'd, and he had gone directly to heaven, for he was as innocent as your honour. -I thank thee, Trim, quoth my uncle Toby. I never think of his, continued Trim, and my poor brother Tom's misfortunes, for we were all three school-fellows, but I cry like a coward. -Tears are no proof of cowardice, Trim. -I drop them oft-times myself, cried my uncle Toby. -I know your honour does, replied Trim, and so am not ashamed of it myself. -But to think, may it please your honour, continued Trim, a tear stealing into the corner of his eye as he spoke-to think of two virtuous lads with hearts as warm in their bodies, and as honest as God could make them-the children of honest people, going forth with gallant spirits to seek their fortunes in the world-and fall into 
[Page 82]
such evils!-poor Tom! to be tortured upon a rack for nothing-but marrying a Jew's widow who sold sausages-honest Dick Johnson's soul to be scourged out of his body, for the ducats another man put into his knapsack! -O!-these are misfortunes, cried Trim, pulling out his handkerchief-these are misfortunes, may it please your honour, worth lying down and crying over. 
-My father could not help blushing. 
-'Twould be a pity, Trim, quoth my uncle Toby, thou shouldst ever feel sorrow of thy own-thou feelest it so tenderly for others. -Alack-o-day, replied the corporal, brightening up his face-your honour knows I have neither wife or child -I can have no sorrows in this world. -My father could not help smiling. - 
[Page 83]
As few as any man, Trim, replied my uncle Toby; nor can I see how a fellow of thy light heart can suffer, but from the distress of poverty in thy old age- when thou art passed all services, Trim,- and hast out-lived thy friends-An' please your honour, never fear, replied Trim chearily-But I would have thee never fear, Trim, replied my uncle; and therefore, continued my uncle Toby, throwing down his crutch, and getting up upon his legs as he uttered the word therefore -in recompence, Trim, of thy long fidelity to me, and that goodness of thy heart I have had such proofs of-whilst thy master is worth a shilling-thou shalt never ask elsewhere, Trim, for a penny. Trim attempted to thank my uncle Toby, -but had not power-tears trickled down his cheeks faster than he could wipe them off. -He laid his hands upon 
[Page 84]
his breast-made a bow to the ground, and shut the door. 
-I have left Trim my bowling-green, cried my uncle Toby-My father smiled -I have left him moreover a pension, continued my uncle Toby-My father looked grave. 
CHAP. V. 
Is this a fit time, said my father to himself, to talk of PENSIONS and GRENADIERS? 
CHAP. VI. 
When my uncle Toby first mentioned the grenadier, my father, I said, fell down with his nose flat to the quilt, and as suddenly as if my uncle 
[Page 85]
Toby had shot him; but it was not added, that every other limb and member of my father instantly relapsed with his nose into the same precise attitude in which he lay first described; so that when corporal Trim left the room, and my father found himself disposed to rise off the bed,-he had all the little preparatory movements to run over again, before he could do it. -Attitudes are nothing, madam,-'tis the transition from one attitude to another- like the preparation and resolution of the discord into harmony, which is all in all. 
For which reason my father played the same jig over again with his toe upon the floor-pushed the chamber-pot still a little farther within the valance-gave a hem-raised himself up upon his elbow -and was just beginning to address himself to my uncle Toby-when recollecting 
[Page 86]
the unsuccessfulness of his first effort in that attitude,-he got upon his legs, and in making the third turn across the room, he stopped short before my uncle Toby; and laying the three first fingers of his right-hand in the palm of his left, and stooping a little, he addressed himself to my uncle Toby as follows. 
CHAP. VII. 
When I reflect, brother Toby, upon MAN; and take a view of that dark side of him which represents his life as open to so many causes of trouble-when I consider, brother Toby, how oft we eat the bread of affliction, and that we are born to it, as to the portion of our inheritance-I was born to nothing, quoth my uncle Toby, interrupting 
[Page 87]
my father-but my commission. Zooks! said my father, did not my uncle leave you a hundred and twenty pounds a year? -What could I have done without it? replied my uncle Toby. -That's another concern, said my father testily- But I say, Toby, when one runs over the catalogue of all the cross reckonings and sorrowful items with which the heart of man is overcharged, 'tis wonderful by what hidden resources the mind is enabled to stand it out, and bear itself up, as it does against the impositions laid upon our nature. -'Tis by the assistance of Almighty God,looking up, and pressing the palms of his hands close together-'tis not from our own strength, brother Shandy-a sentinel in a wooden centry-box, might as well pretend to stand it out against a detachment of fifty men,-we are upheld 
[Page 88]
by the grace and the assistance of the best of Beings. 
-That is cutting the knot, said my father, instead of untying it. -But give me leave to lead you, brother Toby, a little deeper into this mystery. 
With all my heart, replied my uncle Toby. 
My father instantly exchanged the attitude he was in, for that in which Socrates is so finely painted by Raffael in his school of Athens; which your connoisseurship knows is so exquisitely imagined, that even the particular manner of the reasoning of Socrates is expressed by it-for he holds the fore-finger of his left-hand between the fore-finger and the thumb of his right, and seems as if he 
[Page 89]
was saying to the libertine he is reclaiming -"" 
So stood my father, holding fast his fore-finger betwixt his finger and his thumb, and reasoning with my uncle Toby as he sat in his old fringed chair, valanced around with party-coloured worsted bobs-O Garrick! what a rich scene of this would thy exquisite powers make! and how gladly would I write such another to avail myself of thy immortality, and secure my own behind it. 

[Page 90]

CHAP. VIII. 
Though man is of all others the most curious vehicle, said my father, yet at the same time 'tis of so slight a frame and so totteringly put together, that the sudden jerks and hard jostlings it unavoidably meets with in this rugged journey, would overset and tear it to pieces a dozen times a day-was it not, brother Toby, that there is a secret spring within us-Which spring, said my uncle Toby, I take to be Religion. -Will that set my child's nose on? cried my father, letting go his finger, and striking one hand against the other-It makes every thing straight for us, answered my uncle Toby-Figuratively speaking, dear Toby, it may, for aught I know, said 
[Page 91]
my father; but the spring I am speaking of, is that great and elastic power within us of counterbalancing evil, which like a secret spring in a well-ordered machine, though it can't prevent the shock-at least it imposes upon our sense of it. 
Now, my dear brother, said my father, replacing his fore-finger, as he was coming closer to the point,-had my child arrived safe into the world, unmartyr'd in that precious part of him- fanciful and extravagant as I may appear to the world in my opinion of christian names, and of that magic bias which good or bad names irresistably impress upon our characters and conducts-heaven is witness! that in the warmest transports of my wishes for the prosperity of my child, I never once wished to crown his head with more glory and honour, 
[Page 92]
than what George or Edward would have spread around it. 
But alas! continued my father, as the greatest evil has befallen him-I must counteract and undo it with the greatest good. 
He shall be christened Trismegistus, brother. 
I wish it may answer-replied my uncle Toby, rising up. 
CHAP. IX. 
What a chapter of chances, said my father, turning himself about upon the first landing, as he and my uncle Toby were going down stairs-- what a long chapter of chances do the 
[Page 93]
events of this world lay open to us! Take pen and ink in hand, brother Toby, and calculate it fairly-I know no more of calculations than this balluster, said my uncle Toby, (striking short of it with his crutch, and hitting my father a desperate blow souse upon his shin-bone)- 'Twas a hundred to one-cried my uncle Toby. --I thought, quoth my father, (rubbing his shin) you had known nothing of calculations, brother Toby. -'Twas a meer chance, said my uncle Toby-Then it adds one to the chapter -replied my father. 
The double success of my father's repartees tickled off the pain of his shin at once-it was well it so fell out-(chance! again)-or the world to this day had never known the subject of my father's calculation-to guess it-there was no 
[Page 94]
chance-What a lucky chapter of chances has this turned out! for it has saved me the trouble of writing one express, and in truth I have anew already upon my hands without it-Have not I promised the world a chapter of knots? two chapters upon the right and the wrong end of a woman? a chapter upon whiskers? a chapter upon wishes?-a chapter of noses? -No, I have done that-a chapter upon my uncle Toby's modesty: to say nothing of a chapter upon chapters, which I will finish before I sleep-by my great grandfather's whiskers, I shall never get half of 'em through this year. 
Take pen and ink in hand, and calculate it fairly, brother Toby, said my father, and it will turn out a million to one, that of all the parts of the body, the edge 
[Page 95]
of the forceps should have the ill luck just to fall upon and break down that one part, which should break down the fortunes of our house with it. 
It might have been worse, replied my uncle Toby-I don't comprehend, said my father-Suppose the hip had presented, replied my uncle Toby, as Dr. Slop foreboded. 
My father reflected half a minute- looked down-touched the middle of his forehead slightly with his finger- 
-True, said he. 

[Page 96]

CHAP. X. 
Is it not a shame to make two chapters of what passed in going down one pair of stairs? for we are got no farther yet than to the first landing, and there are fifteen more steps down to the bottom; and for aught I know, as my father and my uncle Toby are in a talking humour, there may be as many chapters as steps;-let that be as it will, Sir, I can no more help it than my destiny: - A sudden impulse comes across me- drop the curtain, Shandy-I drop it- Strike a line here across the paper, Tristram -I strike it-and hey for a new chapter? 
The duce of any other rule have I to govern myself by in this affair-and if I 
[Page 97]
had one-as I do all things out of all rule-I would twist it and tear it to pieces, and throw it into the fire when I had done-Am I warm? I am, and the cause demands it-a pretty story! is a man to follow rules-or rules to follow him? 
Now this, you must know, being my chapter upon chapters, which I promised to write before I went to sleep, I thought it meet to ease my conscience entirely before I lay'd down, by telling the world all I knew about the matter at once: Is not this ten times better than to set out dogmatically with a sententious parade of wisdom, and telling the world a story of a roasted horse-that chapters relieve the mind-that they assist-or impose upon the imagination-and that in a work of this dramatic cast they are as necessary as 
[Page 98]
the shifting of scenes-with fifty other cold conceits, enough to extinguish the fire which roasted him. -O! but to understand this, which is a puff at the fire of Diana's temple-you must read Longinus -read away-if you are not a jot the wiser by reading him the first time over -never fear-read him again-Avicenna and Licetus, read Aristotle's metaphysicks forty times through a piece, and never understood a single word. -But mark the consequence-Avicenna turned out a desperate writer at all kinds of writing- for he wrote books de omni scribili; and for Licetus (Fortunio) though all the world knows he was born a fœtus * 12 , of 
[Page 99]
no more than five inches and a half in length, yet he grew to that astonishing height in literature, as to write a book with a title as long as himself-the learned know I mean his Gonopsychanthropologia, upon the origin of the human soul. 

[Page 100]
So much for my chapter upon chapters, which I hold to be the best chapter in my whole work; and take my word, whoever reads it, is full as well employed, as in picking straws. 

[Page 101]

CHAP. XI. 
We shall bring all things to rights, said my father, setting his foot upon the first step from the landing- This Trismegistus, continued my father, drawing his leg back, and turning to my uncle Toby-was the greatest (Toby) of all earthly beings-he was the greatest king-the greatest lawgiver-the greatest philosopher-and the greatest priest- and engineer-said my uncle Toby.- 
-In course, said my father. 

[Page 102]

CHAP. XII. 
-And how does your mistress? cried my father, taking the same step over again from the landing, and calling to Susannah, whom he saw passing by the foot of the stairs with a huge pin-cushion in her hand-how does your mistress? As well, said Susannah, tripping by, but without looking up, as can be expected-What a fool am I, said my father! drawing his leg back again-let things be as they will, brother Toby, 'tis ever the precise answer-And how is the child, pray? -No answer. And where is doctor Slop? added my father, raising his voice aloud, and looking over the ballusters-Susannah was out of hearing. 

[Page 103]
Of all the riddles of a married life, said my father, crossing the landing, in order to set his back against the wall, whilst he propounded it to my uncle Toby-of all the puzzling riddles,in a marriage state,-of which you may trust me, brother Toby, there are more asses loads than all Job's stock of asses could have carried-there is not one that has more intricacies in it than this- that from the very moment the mistress of the house is brought to bed, every female in it, from my lady's gentlewoman down to the cinder-wench, becomes an inch taller for it; and give themselves more airs upon that single inch, than all their other inches put together. 
I think rather, replied my uncle Toby, that 'tis we who sink an inch lower. - If I meet but a woman with child-I do 
[Page 104]
it-'Tis a heavy tax upon that half of our fellow-creatures, brother Shandy, said my uncle Toby-'Tis a piteous burden upon 'em, continued he, shaking his head. -Yes, yes, 'tis a painful thing- said my father, shaking his head too- but certainly since shaking of heads came into fashion, never did two heads shake together, in concert, from two such different springs. 
God bless / Duce take 'em all-said my uncle Toby and my father, each to himself. 
CHAP. XIII. 
Holla!-you chairman!-here's sixpence-do step into that bookseller's shop, and call me a day-tall critick. I am very willing to give any 
[Page 105]
one of 'em a crown to help me with his tackling, to get my father and my uncle Toby off the stairs, and to put them to bed.- 
-'Tis even high time; for except a short nap, which they both got whilst Trim was boring the jack-boots-and which, by the bye, did my father no sort of good upon the score of the bad hinge -they have not else shut their eyes, since nine hours before the time that doctor Slop was led into the back parlour in that dirty pickle by Obadiah. 
Was every day of my life to be as busy a day as this,-and to take up,- truce- 
I will not finish that sentence till I have made an observation upon the strange 
[Page 106]
state of affairs between the reader and myself, just as things stand at present- an observation never applicable before to any one biographical writer since the creation of the world, but to myself- and I believe will never hold good to any other, until its final destruction- and therefore, for the very novelty of it alone, it must be worth your worships attending to. 
I am this month one whole year older than I was this time twelve-month; and having got, as you perceive, almost into the middle of my fourth volume-and no farther than to my first day's life- 'tis demonstrative that I have three hundred and sixty-four days more life to write just now, than when I first set out; so that instead of advancing, as a common writer, in my work with what I 
[Page 107]
have been doing at it-on the contrary, I am just thrown so many volumes back -was every day of my life to be as busy a day as this-And why not?-and the transactions and opinions of it to take up as much description-And for what reason should they be cut short? as at this rate I should just live 364 times faster than I should write-It must follow, an' please your worships, that the more I write, the more I shall have to write-and consequently, the more your worships read, the more your worships will have to read. 
Will this be good for your worships eyes? 
It will do well for mine; and, was it not that my Opinions will be the death of me, I perceive shall lead a fine life of 
[Page 108]
it out of this self-same life of mine; or, in other words, shall lead a couple of fine lives together. 
As for the proposal of twelve volumes a year, or a volume a month, it no way alters my prospect-write as I will, and rush as I may into the middle of things, as Horace advises,-I shall never overtake myself-whipp'd and driven to the last pinch, at the worst I shall have one day the start of my pen-and one day is enough for two volumes-and two volumes will be enough for one year.- 
Heaven prosper the manufactures of paper under this propitious reign, which is now open'd to us,-as I trust its providence will prosper every thing else in it that is taken in hand.- 

[Page 109]
As for the propagation of Geese-I give myself no concern-Nature is all bountiful-I shall never want tools to work with. 
-So then, friend! you have got my father and my uncle Toby off the stairs, and seen them to bed? -And how did you manage it? -You dropp'd a curtain at the stairs foot-I thought you had no other way for it-Here's a crown for your trouble. 
CHAP. XIV. 
-Then reach me my breeches off the chair, said my father to Susannah-There is a not a moment's time to dress you, Sir, cried Susannah- the child is as black in the face as my- 
[Page 110]
As your, what? said my father, for like all orators, he was a dear searcher into comparisons-Bless me, Sir, said Susannah, the child's in a fit-And where's Mr. Yorick-Never where he should be, said Susannah, but his curate's in the dressing-room, with the child upon his arm, waiting for the name-and my mistress bid me run as fast as I could to know, as captain Shandy is the godfather, whether it should not be called after him. 
Were one sure, said my father to himself, scratching his eye-brow, that the child was expiring, one might as well compliment my brother Toby as not- and 'twould be a pity, in such a case, to throw away so great a name as Trismegistus upon him-But he may recover. 

[Page 111]
No, no,-said my father to Susannah, I'll get up-There is no time, cried Susannah, the child's as black as my shoe. Trismegistus, said my father-But stay -thou art a leaky vessel, Susannah, added my father; canst thou carry Trismegistus in thy head, the length of the gallery without scattering-Can I? cried Susannah, shutting the door in a huff- If she can, I'll be shot, said my father, bouncing out of bed in the dark, and groping for his breeches. 
Susannah ran with all speed along the gallery. 
My father made all possible speed to find his breeches. 
Susannah got the start, and kept it- 'Tis Tris-something, cried Susannah- 
[Page 112]
There is no christian name in the world, said the curate, beginning with Tris- but Tristram. Then 'tis Tristram-gistus, quoth Susannah. 
-There is no gistus to it, noodle!- 'tis my own name, replied the curate, dipping his hand as he spoke into the bason-Tristram!&c. &c. &c. &c. so Tristram was I called, and Tristram shall I be to the day of my death. 
My father followed Susannah with his night-gown across his arm, with nothing more than his breeches on, fastened through haste with but a single button, and that button through haste thrust only half into the button-hole. 
-She has not forgot the name, cried my father, half opening the door-No, 
[Page 113]
no, said the curate, with a tone of intelligence -And the child is better, cried Susannah-And how does your mistress? As well, said Susannah, as can be expected -Pish! said my father, the button of his breeches slipping out of the button-hole -So that whether the interjection was levelled at Susannah, or the button-hole, -whether pish was an interjection of contempt or an interjection of modesty, is a doubt, and must be a doubt till I shall have time to write the three following favorite chapters, that is, my chapter of chamber-maids-my chapter of pishes, and my chapter of button-holes. 
All the light I am able to give the reader at present is this, that the moment my father cried Pish! he whisk'd himself about-and with his breeches held up by one hand, and his night-gown 
[Page 114]
thrown across the arm of the other, he returned along the gallery to bed, something slower than he came. 
CHAP. XV. 
I Wish I could write a chapter upon sleep. 
A fitter occasion could never have presented itself, than what this moment offers, when all the curtains of the family are drawn-the candles put out-and no creature's eyes are open but a single one, for the other has been shut these twenty years, of my mother's nurse. 
It is a fine subject! 

[Page 115]
And yet, as fine as it is, I would undertake to write a dozen chapters upon button-holes, both quicker and with more fame than a single chapter upon this. 
Button-holes!-there is something lively in the very idea of 'em-and trust me, when I get amongst 'em-You gentry with great beards-look as grave as you will-I'll make merry work with my button-holes-I shall have 'em all to myself-'tis a maiden subject -I shall run foul of no man's wisdom or fine sayings in it. 
But for sleep-I know I shall make nothing of it before I begin-I am no dab at your fine sayings in the first place -and in the next, I cannot for my soul 
[Page 116]
set a grave face upon a bad matter, and tell the world-'tis the refuge of the unfortunate-the enfranchisement of the prisoner-the downy lap of the hopeless, the weary and the broken-hearted; nor could I set out with a lye in my mouth, by affirming, that of all the soft and delicious functions of our nature, by which the great Author of it, in his bounty, has been pleased to recompence the sufferings wherewith his justice and his good pleasure has wearied us,-that this is the chiefest (I know pleasures worth ten of it) or what a happiness it is to man, when the anxieties and passions of the day are over, and he lays down upon his back, that his soul shall be so seated within him, that which ever way she turns her eyes, the heavens shall look calm and sweet above her-no desire- or fear-or doubt that troubles the air, 
[Page 117]
nor any difficulty pass'd, present, or to come, that the imagination may not pass over without offence, in that sweet secession. 
-"" Now there is more to me in this, and it speaks warmer to my heart and affections, that all the dissertations squeez'd out of the heads of the learned together upon the subject. 
-Not that I altogether disapprove of what Montaigne advances upon it-'tis admirable in its way. -(I quote by memory.) 

[Page 118]
The world enjoys other pleasures, says he, as they do that of sleep, without tasting or feeling it as it slips and passes by-We should study and ruminate upon it, in order to render proper thanks to him who grants it to us-for this end I cause myself to be disturbed in my sleep, that I may the better and more sensibly relish it-And yet I see few, says he again, who live with less sleep when need requires; my body is capable of a firm, but not of a violent and sudden agitation-I evade of late all violent exercises-I am never weary with walking -but from my youth, I never liked to ride upon pavements. I love to lie hard and alone, and even without my wife-This last word may stagger the faith of the world-but remember, "" And so much for sleep. 
CHAP. XVI. 
If my wife will but venture him- brother Toby, Trismegistus shall be dress'd and brought down to us, whilst you and I are getting our breakfasts together.- 
-Go, tell Susanna, Obadiah, to step here. 
She is run up stairs, answered Obadiah, this very instant, sobbing and crying, and wringing her hands as if her heart would break.- 

[Page 120]
We shall have a rare month of it, said my father, turning his head from Obadiah, and looking wistfully in my uncle Toby's face for some time-we shall have a devilish month of it, brother Toby, said my father, setting his arms a-kimbo, and shaking his head; fire, water, women, wind-brother Toby! -'Tis some misfortune, quoth my uncle Toby-That it is, cried my father,-to have so many jarring elements breaking loose, and riding triumph in every corner of a gentleman's house-Little boots it to the peace of a family, brother Toby, that you and I possess ourselves, and sit here silent and unmoved,-whilst such a storm is whistling over our heads.- 
-And what's the matter, Susannah? They have called the child Tristram- and my mistress is just got out of an 
[Page 121]
hysterick fit about it-No!-'tis not my fault, said Susannah-I told him it was Tristram-gistus. 
-Make tea for yourself, brother Toby, said my father, taking down his hat-but how different from the sallies and agitations of voice and members which a common reader would imagine! 
-For he spake in the sweetest modulation -and took down his hat with the gentlest movement of limbs, that ever affliction harmonized and attuned together. 
-Go to the bowling-green for corporal Trim, said my uncle Toby, speaking to Obadiah, as soon as my father left the room. 

[Page 122]

CHAP. XVII. 
When the misfortune of my NOSE fell so heavily upon my father's head,-the reader remembers that he walked instantly up stairs, and cast himself down upon his bed; and from hence, unless he has a great insight into human nature, he will be apt to expect a rotation of the same ascending and descending movements from him, upon this misfortune of my NAME;- no. 
The different weight, dear Sir,-nay even the different package of two vexations of the same weight,-makes a very wide difference in our manners of bearing and getting through with them. -It is 
[Page 123]
not half an hour ago, when (in the great hurry and precipitation of a poor devil's writing for daily bread) I threw a fair sheet, which I had just finished, and carefully wrote out, slap into the fire, instead of the foul one. 
Instantly I snatch'd off my wig, and threw it perpendicularly, with all imaginable violence, up to the top of the room -indeed I caught it as it fell-but there was an end of the matter; nor do I think any thing else in Nature, would have given such immediate ease: She, dear Goddess, by an instantaneous impulse, in all provoking cases, determines us to a sally of this or that member-or else she thrusts us into this or that place, or posture of body, we know not why- But mark, madam, we live amongst riddles and mysteries-the most obvious 
[Page 124]
things, which come in our way, have dark sides, which the quickest sight cannot penetrate into; and even the clearest and most exalted understandings amongst us find ourselves puzzled and at a loss in almost every cranny of nature's works; so that this, like a thousand other things, falls out for us in a way, which tho' we cannot reason upon it,-yet we find the good of it, may it please your reverences and your worships-and that's enough for us. 
Now, my father could not lie down with this affliction for his life-nor could he carry it up stairs like the other-He walked composedly out with it to the fish-pond. 
Had my father leaned his head upon his hand, and reasoned an hour which 
[Page 125]
way to have gone-reason, with all her force, could not have directed him to any thing like it: there is something, Sir, in fish-ponds-but what it is, I leave to system builders and fish pond diggers betwixt 'em to find out-but there is something, under the first disorderly transport of the humours, so unaccountably becalming in an orderly and a sober walk towards one of them, that I have often wondered that neither Pythagoras, nor Plato, nor Solon, nor Licurgus, nor Mahomet, nor any of your noted law-givers, ever gave order about them. 
CHAP. XVIII. 
Your honour, said Trim, shutting the parlour door before he began to speak, has heard, I imagine, of this 
[Page 126]
unlucky accident--O yes, Trim! said my uncle Toby, and it gives me great concern-I am heartily concerned too, but I hope your honour, replied Trim, will do me the justice to believe, that it was not in the least owing to me-To thee-Trim!-cried my uncle Toby, looking kindly in his face-'twas Susannah's and the curate's folly betwixt them- What business could they have together, an' please your honour, in the garden? - In the gallery, thou meanest, replied my uncle Toby. 
Trim found he was upon a wrong scent, and stopped short with a low bow -Two misfortunes, quoth the corporal to himself, are twice as many at least as are needful to be talked over at one time, -the mischief the cow has done in breaking into the fortifications, may be 
[Page 127]
told his honour hereafter-Trim's casuistry and address, under the cover of his low bow, prevented all suspicion in my uncle Toby, so he went on with what he had to say to Trim as follows. 
-For my own part, Trim, though I can see little or no difference betwixt my nephew's being called Tristram or Trismegistus -yet as the thing sits so near my brother's heart, Trim,-I would freely have given a hundred pounds rather than it should have happened-A hundred pounds, an'please your honour, replied Trim,-I would not give a cherry-stone to boot-Nor would I, Trim, upon my own account, quoth my uncle Toby- but my brother, whom there is no arguing with in this case-maintains that a great deal more depends, Trim, upon christian names, than what ignorant people imagine; 
[Page 128]
-for he says there never was a great or heroic action performed since the world began by one called Tristram -nay he will have it, Trim, that a man can neither be learned, or wise, or brave -'Tis all a fancy, an'please your honour -I fought just as well, replied the corporal, when the regiment called me Trim, as when they called me James Butler- And for my own part, said my uncle Toby, though I should blush to boast of myself, Trim,-yet had my name been Alexander, I could have done no more at Namur than my duty-Bless your honour! cried Trim, advancing three steps as he spoke, does a man think of his christian name when he goes upon the attack? -Or when he stands in the trench, Trim?looking firm-Or when he enters a breach? said Trim, pushing in between two chairs- 
[Page 129]
-Or forces the lines? cried my uncle, rising up, and pushing his crutch like a pike-Or facing a platoon, cried Trim, presenting his stick like a firelock-Or when he marches up the glacis,looking warm and setting his foot upon his stool.- 
CHAP. XIX. 
My father was returned from his walk to the fish-pond-and opened the parlour-door in the very height of the attack, just as my uncle Toby was marching up the glacis-Trim recovered his arms-never was my uncle Toby caught riding at such a desperate rate in his life! Alas! my uncle Toby! had not a weightier matter called forth all the ready eloquence of my father-how hadst 
[Page 130]
thou then and thy poor Hobby-Horse too have been insulted! 
My father hung up his hat with the same air he took it down; and after giving a slight look at the disorder of the room, he took hold of one of the chairs which had formed the corporal's breach, and placing it over-against my uncle Toby, he sat down in it, and as soon as the tea-things were taken away and the door shut, he broke out in a lamentation as follows. 
My Father's Lamentation.
It is in vain longer, said my father, addressing himself as much to Ernulphus's curse, which was laid upon the corner of the chimney-piece,-as to my uncle Toby who sat under it-it is in vain longer, 
[Page 131]
said my father, in the most querulous monotone imaginable, to struggle as I have done against this most uncomfortable of human persuasions-I see it plainly, that either for my own sins, brother Toby, or the sins and follies of the Shandy-family, heaven has thought fit to draw forth the heaviest of its artillery against me; and that the prosperity of my child is the point upon which the whole force of it is directed to play- Such a thing would batter the whole universe about our ears, brother Shandy, said my uncle Toby,-if it was so-Unhappy Tristram! child of wrath! child of decrepitude! interruption! mistake! and discontent! What one misfortune or disaster in the book of embryotic evils, that could unmechanize thy frame, or entangle thy filaments! which has not fallen upon thy head, or ever thou camest 
[Page 132]
into the world-what evils in thy passage into it! -What evils since!-produced into being, in the decline of thy father's days-when the powers of his imagination and of his body were waxing feeble- when radical heat and radical moisture, the elements which should have temper'd thine, were drying up; and nothing left to found thy stamina in, but negations- -'tis pitiful-brother Toby, at the best, and called out for all the little helps that care and attention on both sides could give it. But how were we defeated! You know the event, brother Toby,-'tis too melancholy a one to be repeated now,-when the few animal spirits I was worth in the world, and with which memory, fancy, and quick parts should have been convey'd,-were all dispersed, confused, confounded, scattered, and sent to the devil.- 

[Page 133]
Here then was the time to have put a stop to this persecution against him;- and tried an experiment at least-whether calmness and serenity of mind in your sister, with a due attention, brother Toby, to her evacuations and repletions-and the rest of her non-naturals, might not, in a course of nine months gestation, have set all things to rights. -My child was bereft of these! -What a teazing life did she lead herself, and consequently her fœtus too, with that nonsensical anxiety of hers about lying in in town? I thought my sister submitted with the greatest patience, replied my uncle Toby -I never heard her utter one fretful word about it-She fumed inwardly, cried my father; and that, let me tell you, brother, was ten times worse for the child-and then! what battles did she fight with me, and what perpetual storms 
[Page 134]
about the midwife-There she gave vent, said my uncle Toby-Vent! cried my father, looking up- 
But what was all this, my dear Toby, to the injuries done us by my child's coming head foremost into the world, when all I wished in this general wreck of his frame, was to have saved this little casket unbroke, unrifled- 
With all my precautions, how was my system turned topside turvy in the womb with my child! his head exposed to the hand of violence, and a pressure of 470 pounds averdupois weight acting so perpendicularly upon its apex-that at this hour 'tis ninety per Cent. insurance, that the fine network of the intellectual web be not rent and torn to a thousand tatters. 

[Page 135]
-Still we could have done. -Fool, coxcomb, puppy-give him but a NOSE -Cripple, Dwarf, Driviller, Goosecap -(shape him as you will) the door of Fortune stands open-O Licetus! Licetus! had I been blest with a fœtus five inches long and a half, like thee-fate might have done her worst. 
Still, brother Toby, there was one cast of the dye left for our child after all- O Tristram! Tristram! Tristram! 
We will send for Mr. Yorick, said my uncle Toby. 
-You may send for whom you will, replied my father. 

[Page 136]

CHAP. XX. 
What a rate have I gone on at, curvetting and frisking it away, two up and two down for four volumes together, without looking once behind, or even on one side of me, to see whom I trod upon! -I'll tread upon no one,- quoth I to myself when I mounted-I'll take a good rattling gallop; but I'll not hurt the poorest jack-ass upon the road- So off I set-up one lane-down another, through this turn-pike-over that, as if the arch-jockey of jockeys had got behind me. 
Now ride at this rate with what good intention and resolution you may,-'tis a million to one you'll do some one a 
[Page 137]
mischief, if not yourself-He's flung- he's off-he's lost his seat-he's down- he'll break his neck-see!-if he has not galloped full amongst the scaffolding of the undertaking criticks!-he'll knock his brains out against some of their posts -he's bounced out!-look-he's now riding like a madcap full tilt through a whole crowd of painters, fiddlers, poets, biographers, physicians, lawyers, logicians, players, schoolmen, churchmen, statesmen, soldiers, casuists, connoisseurs, prelates, popes, and engineers-Don't fear, said I-I'll not hurt the poorest jack-ass upon the king's high-way-But your horse throws dirt; see you've splash'd a bishop-I hope in God, 'twas only Ernulphus, said I-But you have squirted full in the faces of Mess. Le Mayne, De Romigny, and De Marcilly, doctors of the Sorbonne-That was last year, replied 
[Page 138]
I-But you have trod this moment upon a king. -Kings have bad times on't, said I, to be trod upon by such people as me. 
-You have done it, replied my accuser. 
I deny it, quoth I, and so have got off, and here am I standing with my bridle in one hand, and with my cap in the other, to tell my story-And what is it? You shall hear in the next chapter. 
CHAP. XXI. 
As Francis the first of France was one winterly night warming himself over the embers of a wood fire, and talking with his first minister of sundry 
[Page 139]
things for the good of the state-it would not be amiss, said the king, stirring up the embers with his cane, if this good understanding betwixt ourselves and Switzerland was a little strengthened 13 -There is no end, Sire, replied the minister, in giving money to these people -they would swallow up the treasury of France-Poo! poo! answered the king--there are more ways, Mons. le Premier, of bribing states, besides that of giving money--I'll pay Switzerland the honour of standing godfather for my next child-Your majesty, said the minister, in so doing, would have all the grammarians in Europe upon your back;-Switzerland, as a republick, being a female, can in no construction be godfather-She may be godmother, replied Francis, hastily-so announce my 
[Page 140]
intentions by a courier to morrow morning. 
I am astonished, said Francis the First, (that day fortnight) speaking to his minister as he entered the closet, that we have had no answer from Switzerland- Sire, I wait upon you this moment, said Mons. le Premier, to lay before you my dispatches upon that business. -They take it kindly? said the king-They do, Sire, replied the minister, and have the highest sense of the honour your majesty has done them-but the republick, as godmother, claims her right in this case, of naming the child. 
In all reason, quoth the king-she will christen him Francis, or Henry, or Lewis, or some name that she knows will be agreeable to us. Your majesty is deceived, 
[Page 141]
replied the minister-I have this hour received a dispatch from our resident, with the determination of the republick on that point also-And what name has the republick fixed upon for the Dauphin? -Shadrach, Mesech, and Abed-nego, replied the minister-By saint Peter's girdle, I will have nothing to do with the Swiss, cried Francis the First, pulling up his breeches and walking hastily across the floor. 
Your majesty, replied the minister calmly, cannot bring yourself off. 
We'll pay them in money-said the king. 
Sire, there are not sixty thousand crowns in the treasury, answered the minister-I'll pawn the best jewel 
[Page 142]
in my crown, quoth Francis the First. 
Your honour stands pawn'd already in this matter, answered Monsieur le Premier. 
Then, Mons. le Premier, said the king, by --- we'll go to war with 'em. 
CHAP. XXII. 
Albeit, gentle reader, I have lusted earnestly, and endeavoured carefully (according to the measure of such slender skill as God has vouchsafed me, and as convenient leisure from other occasions of needful profit and healthful pastime have permitted) that these little books, which I here put into thy hands, 
[Page 143]
might stand instead of many bigger books -yet have I carried myself towards thee in such fanciful guise of careless disport, that right sore am I ashamed now to entreat thy lenity seriously-in beseeching thee to believe it of me, that in the story of my father and his christen-names, -I had no thoughts of treading upon Francis the First-nor in the affair of the nose-upon Francis the Ninth-nor in the character of my uncle Toby-of characterizing the militiating spirits of my country-the wound upon his groin, is a wound to every comparison of that kind,-nor by Trim,-that I meant the duke of Ormond-or that my book is wrote against predestination, or free will, or taxes-If 'tis wrote against any thing, -'tis wrote, an'please your worships, against the spleen; in order, by a more 
[Page 144]
frequent and a more convulsive elevation and depression of the diaphragm, and the succussations of the intercostal and abdominal muscles in laughter, to drive the gall and other bitter juices from the gall bladder, liver and sweet-bread of his majesty's subjects, with all the inimicitious passions which belong to them, down into their duodenums. 
CHAP. XXIII. 
-But can the thing be undone, Yorick? said my father-for in my opinion, continued he, it cannot. I am a vile canonist, replied Yorick-but of all evils, holding suspense to be the most tormenting, we shall at least know the worst of this matter. I hate these great dinners-said my father-The size 
[Page 145]
of the dinner is not the point, answered Yorick-we want, Mr. Shandy, to dive into the bottom of this doubt, whether the name can be changed or not-and as the beards of so many commissaries, officials, advocates, proctors, registers, and of the most able of our school-divines, and others, are all to meet in the middle of one table, and Didius has so pressingly invited you,-who in your distress would miss such an occasion? All that is requisite, continued Yorick, is to apprize Didius, and let him manage a conversation after dinner so as to introduce the subject-Then my brother Toby, cried my father, clapping his two hands together, shall go with us. 

[Page 146]
-Let my old tye wig, quoth my uncle Toby, and my laced regimentals, be hung to the fire all night, Trim. 

[Page 156]

CHAP. XXV. 
-No doubt, Sir-there is a whole chapter wanting here-and a chasm of ten pages made in the book by it-but the book-binder is neither a fool, or a knave, or a puppy-nor is the book a jot more imperfect, (at least upon that score)-but, on the contrary, the book is more perfect and complete by wanting the chapter, than having it, as I shall demonstrate to your reverences in this manner-I question first by the bye, whether the same experiment might not be made as successfully upon sundry other chapters-but there is no end, an' please your reverences, in trying experiments upon chapters-we have had 
[Page 157]
enough of it-So there's an end of that matter. 
But before I begin my demonstration, let me only tell you, that the chapter which I have torn out, and which otherwise you would all have been reading just now, instead of this,-was the description of my father's, my uncle Toby's, Trim's, and Obadiah's setting out and journeying to the visitations at ****. 
We'll go in the coach, said my father -Prithee, have the arms been altered, Obadiah? -It would have made my story much better, to have begun with telling you, that at the time my mother's arms were added to the Shandy's, when the coach was repainted upon my father's marriage, it had so fallen out, that the coach painter, whether by performing 
[Page 158]
all his works with the left-hand, like Turpilius the Roman, or Hans Holbein of Basil-or whether 'twas more from the blunder of his head than hand-or whether, lastly, it was from the sinister turn, which every thing relating to our family was apt to take-It so fell out, however, to our reproach, that instead of the bend dexter, which since Harry the Eighth's reign was honestly our due-a bend sinister, by some of these fatalities, had been drawn quite across the field of the Shandy-arms. 'Tis scarce credible that the mind of so wise a man as my father was, could be so much incommoded with so small a matter. The word coach-let it be whose it would-or coach-man, or coach-horse, or coach-hire, could never be named in the family, but he constantly complained of carrying this vile mark of Illegitimacy upon the door of his own; 
[Page 159]
he never once was able to step into the coach, or out of it, without turning round to take a view of the arms, and making a vow at the same time, that it was the last time he would ever set his foot in it again, till the bend-sinister was taken out-but like the affair of the hinge, it was one of the many things which the Destinies had set down in their books-ever to be grumbled at (and in wiser families than ours)-but never to be mended. 
-Has the bend-sinister been brush'd out, I say? said my father-There has been nothing brush'd out, Sir, answered Obadiah, but the lining. We'll go o'horse-back, said my father, turning to Yorick-Of all things in the world, except politicks, the clergy know the least of heraldry; said Yorick-No matter for 
[Page 160]
that, cried my father-I should be sorry to appear with a blot in my escutcheon before them-Never mind the bend-sinister, said my uncle Toby, putting on his tye-wig-No, indeed, said my father, -you may go with my aunt Dinah to a visitation with a bend-sinister, if you think fit-My poor uncle Toby blush'd. My father was vexed at himself-No-my dear brother Toby, said my father, changing his tone-but the damp of the coach-lining about my loins, may give me the Sciatica again, as it did December, January, and February last winter-so if you please you shall ride my wife's pad -and as you are to preach, Yorick, you had better make the best of your way before,-and leave me to take care of my brother Toby, and to follow at our own rates. 

[Page 161]
Now the chapter I was obliged to tear out, was the description of this cavalcade, in which corporal Trim and Obadiah, upon two coach-horses a-breast, led the way as slow as a patrole-whilst my uncle Toby, in his laced regimentals and tye-wig, kept his rank with my father, in deep roads and dissertations alternately upon the advantage of learning and arms, as each could get the start. 
-But the painting of this journey, upon reviewing it, appears to be so much above the stile and manner of any thing else I have been able to paint in this book, that it could not have remained in it, without depreciating every other scene; and destroying at the same time that necessary equipoise and balance, (whether of good or bad) betwixt chapter and chapter, from whence the just 
[Page 162]
proportions and harmony of the whole work results. For my own part, I am but just set up in the business, so know little about it-but, in my opinion, to write a book is for all the world like humming a song-be but in tune with yourself, madam, 'tis no matter how high or how low you take it.- 
-This is the reason, may it please your reverences, that some of the lowest and flattest compositions pass off very well-(as Yorick told my uncle Toby one night) by siege-My uncle Toby looked brisk at the sound of the word siege, but could make neither head or tail of it. 
I'm to preach at court next Sunday, said Homenas-run over my notes-so I humm'd over doctor Homenas's notes- the modulation's very well-'twill do, 
[Page 163]
Homenas, if it holds on at this rate-so on I humm'd-and a tolerable tune I thought it was; and to this hour, may it please your reverences, had never found out how low, how flat, how spiritless and jejune it was, but that all of a sudden, up started an air in the middle of it, so fine, so rich, so heavenly-it carried my soul up with it into the other world; now had I, (as Montaigne complained in a parallel accident)-had I found the declivity easy, or the ascent accessible-certes I had been outwitted -Your notes, Homenas, I should have said, are good notes,-but it was so perpendicular a precipice-so wholly cut off from the rest of the work, that by the first note I humm'd, I found myself flying into the other world, and from thence discovered the vale from whence I came, so deep, so low, and dismal, 
[Page 164]
that I shall never have the heart to descend into it again. 
? A dwarf who brings a standard along with him to measure his own size -take my word, is a dwarf in more articles than one-And so much for tearing out of chapters. 
CHAP. XXVI. 
-See if he is not cutting it all into slips, and giving them about him to light their pipes! -'Tis abominable, answered Didius; it should not go unnoticed, said doctor Kysarcius-? he was of the Kysarcij of the low countries. 
Methinks, said Didius, half rising from his chair, in order to remove a 
[Page 165]
bottle and a tall decanter, which stood in a direct line betwixt him and Yorick -you might have spared this sarcastick stroke, and have hit upon a more proper place, Mr. Yorick-or at least upon a more proper occasion to have shewn your contempt of what we have been about: If the Sermon is of no better worth than to light pipes with-'twas certainly, Sir, not good enough to be preached before so learned a body; and if 'twas good enough to be preached before so learned a body-'twas certainly, Sir, too good to light their pipes with afterwards. 
-I have got him fast hung up, quoth Didius to himself, upon one of the two horns of my dilemma-let him get off as he can. 

[Page 166]
I have undergone such unspeakable torments, in bringing forth this sermon, quoth Yorick, upon this occasion,-that I declare, Didius, I would suffer martyrdom -and if it was possible my horse with me, a thousand times over, before I would sit down and make such another: I was delivered of it at the wrong end of me-it came from my head instead of my heart-and it is for the pain it gave me, both in the writing and preaching of it, that I revenge myself of it, in this manner. -To preach, to shew the extent of our reading, or the subtleties of our wit-to parade it in the eyes of the vulgar with the beggarly accounts of a little learning, tinseled over with a few words which glitter, but convey little light and less warmth-is a dishonest use of the poor single half hour in a week which is put into our hands-'Tis not preaching 
[Page 167]
the gospel-but ourselves-For my own part, continued Yorick, I had rather direct five words point blank to the heart- 
As Yorick pronounced the word point blank, my uncle Toby rose up to say something upon projectiles-when a single word, and no more, uttered from the opposite side of the table, drew every one's ears towards it-a word of all others in the dictionary the last in that place to be expected-a word I am ashamed to write-yet must be written -must be read;-illegal-uncanonical- guess ten thousand guesses, multiplied into themselves-rack-torture your invention for ever, you're where you was- In short, I'll tell it in the next chapter. 

[Page 168]

CHAP. XXVII. 
Zounds! --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- Z---ds! cried Phutatorius, partly to himself-and yet high enough to be heard-and what seemed odd, 'twas uttered in a construction of look, and in a tone of voice, somewhat between that of a man in amazement, and of one in bodily pain. 
One or two who had very nice ears, and could distinguish the expression and mixture of the two tones as plainly as a third or a fifth, or any other chord in musick-were the most puzzled and perplexed with it-the concord was good in itself-but then 'twas quite out of the 
[Page 169]
key, and no way applicable to the subject started;-so that with all their knowledge, they could not tell what in the world to make of it. 
Others who knew nothing of musical expression, and merely lent their ears to the plain import of the word, imagined that Phutatorius, who was somewhat of a cholerick spirit, was just going to snatch the cudgels out of Didius's hands, in order to bemawl Yorick to some purpose-and that the desperate monosyllable Z---ds was the exordium to an oration, which, as they judged from the sample, presaged but a rough kind of handling of him; so that my uncle Toby's good nature felt a pang for what Yorick was about to undergo. But seeing Phutatorius stop short, without any attempt or desire to go on-a third party began to suppose, 
[Page 170]
that it was no more than an involuntary respiration, casually forming itself into the shape of a twelve-penny oath-without the sin or substance of one. 
Others, and especially one or two who sat next him, looked upon it on the contrary, as a real and substantial oath propensly formed against Yorick, to whom he was known to bear no good liking- which said oath, as my father philosophized upon it, actually lay fretting and fuming at that very time in the upper regions of Phutatorius's purtenance; and so was naturally, and according to the due course of things, first squeezed out by the sudden influx of blood, which was driven into the right ventricle of Phutatorius's heart, by the stroke of surprize which so strange a theory of preaching had excited. 

[Page 171]
How finely we argue upon mistaken facts! 
There was not a soul busied in all these various reasonings upon the monosyllable which Phutatorius uttered,-who did not take this for granted, proceeding upon it as from an axiom, namely, that Phutatorius's mind was intent upon the subject of debate which was arising between Didius and Yorick; and indeed as he looked first towards the one, and then towards the other, with the air of a man listening to what was going forwards,- who would not have thought the same? But the truth was, that Phutatorius knew not one word or one syllable of what was passing-but his whole thoughts and attention were taken up with a transaction which was going forwards at that very instant within the precincts of his own 
[Page 172]
Galligaskins, and in a part of them, where of all others he stood most interested to watch accidents: So that notwithstanding he looked with all the attention in the world, and had gradually skrewed up every nerve and muscle in his face, to the utmost pitch the instrument would bear, in order, as it was thought, to give a sharp reply to Yorick, who sat over-against him-Yet I say, was Yorick never once in any one domicile of Phutatorius's brain-but the true cause of his exclamation lay at least a yard below. 
This I will endeavour to explain to you with all imaginable decency. 
You must be informed then, that Gastripheres, who had taken a turn into the kitchen a little before dinner, to see how things went on-observing a wicker-basket 
[Page 173]
of fine chesnuts standing upon the dresser, had ordered that a hundred or two of them might be roasted and sent in, as soon as dinner was over-Gastripheres inforcing his orders about them, that Didius, but Phutatorius especially, were particularly fond of 'em. 
About two minutes before the time that my uncle Toby interrupted Yorick's harangue-Gastripheres's chesnuts were brought in-and as Phutatorius's fondness for 'em, was uppermost in the waiter's head, he laid them directly before Phutatorius, wrapt up hot in a clean damask napkin. 
Now whether it was physically impossible, with half a dozen hands all thrust into the napkin at a time-but that some one chesnut, of more life and rotundity 
[Page 174]
than the rest, must be put in motion- it so fell out, however, that one was actually sent rolling off the table; and as Phutatorius sat straddling under-it fell perpendicularly into that particular aperture of Phutatorius's breeches, for which, to the shame and indelicacy of our language be it spoke, there is no chaste word throughout all Johnson's dictionary-let it suffice to say-it was that particular aperture, which in all good societies, the laws of decorum do strictly require, like the temple of Janus (in peace at least) to be universally shut up. 
The neglect of this punctilio in Phutatorius (which by the bye should be a warning to all mankind) had opened a door to this accident.- 

[Page 175]
-Accident, I call it, in compliance to a received mode of speaking,-but in no opposition to the opinion either of Acrites or Mythogeras in this matter; I know they were both prepossessed and fully persuaded of it-and are so to this hour, That there was nothing of accident in the whole event-but that the chesnut's taking that particular course, and in a manner of its accord-and then falling with all its heat directly into that one particular place, and no other- was a real judgment upon Phutatorius, for that filthy and obscene treatise de Concubinis retinendis, which Phutatorius had published about twenty years ago- and was that identical week going to give the world a second edition of. 
It is not my business to dip my pen in this controversy--much undoubtedly 
[Page 176]
may be wrote on both sides of the question-all that concerns me as an historian, is to represent the matter of fact, and render it credible to the reader, that the hiatus in Phutatorius's breeches was sufficiently wide to receive the chesnut; -and that the chesnut, some how or other, did fall perpendicularly and piping hot into it, without Phutatorius's perceiving it, or any one else at that time. 
The genial warmth which the chesnut imparted, was not undelectable for the first twenty or five and twenty seconds,- and did no more than gently solicit Phutatorius's attention towards the part:- But the heat gradually increasing, and in a few seconds more getting beyond the point of all sober pleasure, and then advancing with all speed into the regions of pain,-the soul of Phutatorius, together 
[Page 177]
with all his ideas, his thoughts, his attention, his imagination, judgment, resolution, deliberation, ratiocination, memory, fancy, with ten batallions of animal spirits, all tumultuously crouded down, through different defiles and circuits, to the place in danger, leaving all his upper regions, as you may imagine, as empty as my purse. 
With the best intelligence which all these messengers could bring him back, Phutatorius was not able to dive into the secret of what was going forwards below, nor could he make any kind of conjecture, what the devil was the matter with it: However, as he knew not what the true cause might turn out, he deemed it most prudent, in the situation he was in at present, to bear it, if possible, like a stoick; which, with the help of some 
[Page 178]
wry faces and compursions of the mouth, he had certainly accomplished, had his imagination continued neuter-but the sallies of the imagination are ungovernable in things of this kind-a thought instantly darted into his mind, that tho' the anguish had the sensation of glowing heat-it might, notwithstanding that, be a bite as well as a burn; and if so, that possibly a Newt or an Asker, or some such detested reptile, had crept up, and was fastening his teeth-the horrid idea of which, with a fresh glow of pain arising that instant from the chesnut, seized Phutatorius with a sudden panick, and in the first terrifying disorder of the passion it threw him, as it has done the best generals upon earth, quite off his guard;-the effect of which was this, that he leapt incontinently up, uttering as he rose that interjection of surprise so 
[Page 179]
much discanted upon, with the aposiopestick-break after it, marked thus, Z---ds-which, though not strictly canonical, was still as little as any man could have said upon the occasion;- and which, by the bye, whether canonical or not, Phutatorius could no more help than he could the cause of it. 
Though this has taken up some time in the narrative, it took up little more time in the transaction, than just to allow time for Phutatorius to draw forth the chesnut, and throw it down with violence upon the floor-and for Yorick, to rise from his chair, and pick the chesnut up. 
It is curious to observe the triumph of slight incidents over the mind: -What incredible weight they have in forming 
[Page 180]
and governing our opinions, both of men and things,-that trifles light as air, shall waft a belief into the soul, and plant it so immoveably within it,-that Euclid's demonstrations, could they be brought to batter it in breach, should not all have power to overthrow it. 
Yorick, I said, picked up the chesnut which Phutatorius's wrath had flung down-the action was trifling-I am ashamed to account for it-he did it, for no reason, but that he thought the chesnut not a jot worse for the adventure -and that he held a good chesnut worth stooping for. -But this incident, trifling as it was, wrought differently in Phutatorius's head: He considered this act of Yorick's, in getting off his chair, and picking up the chesnut, as a plain acknowledgment in him, that the chesnut 
[Page 181]
was originally his,-and in course, that it must have been the owner of the chesnut, and no one else, who could have plaid him such a prank with it: What greatly confirmed him in this opinion, was this, that the table being parallelogramical and very narrow, it afforded a fair opportunity for Yorick, who sat directly over-against Phutatorius, of slipping the chesnut in-and consequently that he did it. The look of something more than suspicion, which Phutatorius cast full upon Yorick as these thoughts arose, too evidently spoke his opinion-and as Phutatorius was naturally supposed to know more of the matter than any person besides, his opinion at once became the general one;-and for a reason very different from any which have been yet given-in a little time it was put out of all manner of dispute. 

[Page 182]
When great or unexpected events fall out upon the stage of this sublunary world-the mind of man, which is an inquisitive kind of a substance, naturally takes a flight, behind the scenes, to see what is the cause and first spring of them-The search was not long in this instance. 
It was well known that Yorick had never a good opinion of the treatise which Phutatorius had wrote de Concubinis retinendis, as a thing which he feared had done hurt in the world-and 'twas easily found out, that there was a mystical meaning in Yorick's prank-and that his chucking the chesnut hot into Phutatorius's ***-*****, was a sarcastical fling at his book-the doctrines of which, they said, had inflamed many an honest man in the same place. 

[Page 183]
This conceit awaken'd Somnolentus- made Agelastes smile-and if you can recollect the precise look and air of a man's face intent in finding out a riddle- it threw Gastripheres's into that form- and in short was thought by many to be a master-stroke of arch wit. 
This, as the reader has seen from one end to the other, was as groundless as the dreams of philosophy: Yorick, no doubt, as Shakespear said of his ancestor -"" but it was temper'd with something which withheld him from that, and many other ungracious pranks, of which he as undeservedly bore the blame;-but it was his misfortune all his life long to bear the imputation of saying and doing a thousand things of which (unless my esteem blinds me) his nature was incapable. All I 
[Page 184]
blame him for-or rather, all I blame and alternately like him for, was that singularity of his temper, which would never suffer him to take pains to set a story right with the world, however in his power. In every ill usage of that sort, he acted precisely as in the affair of his lean horse-he could have explained it to his honour, but his spirit was above it; and besides he ever looked upon the inventor, the propagator and believer of an illiberal report alike so injurious to him,-he could not stoop to tell his story to them-and so trusted to time and truth to do it for him. 
This heroic cast produced him inconveniences in many respects-in the present, it was followed by the fixed resentment of Phutatorius, who, as Yorick had just made an end of his chesnut, rose up 
[Page 185]
from his chair a second time, to let him know it-which indeed he did with a smile; saying only-that he would endeavour not to forget the obligation. 
But you must mark and carefully separate and distinguish these two things in your mind. 
-The smile was for the company. 
-The threat was for Yorick. 
CHAP. XXVIII. 
-Can you tell me, quoth Phutatorius, speaking to Gastripheres who sat next to him,-for one would not apply to a surgeon in so foolish an affair,-can you tell me, Gastripheres, 
[Page 186]
what is best to take out the fire? -Ask Eugenius, said Gastripheres-That greatly depends, said Eugenius, pretending ignorance of the adventure, upon the nature of the part-If it is a tender part, and a part which can conveniently be wrapt up-It is both the one and the other, replied Phutatorius, laying his hand as he spoke, with an emphatical nod of his head upon the part in question, and lifting up his right leg at the same time to ease and ventilate it-If that is the case, said Eugenius, I would advise you, Phutatorius, not to tamper with it by any means; but if you will send to the next printer, and trust your cure to such a simple thing as a soft sheet of paper just come off the press-you need do nothing more than twist it round-The damp paper, quoth Yorick (who sat next to his friend Eugenius) though I know it 
[Page 187]
has a refreshing coolness in it-yet I presume is no more than the vehicle-and that the oil and lamp-black with which the paper is so strongly impregnated, does the business-Right, said Eugenius, and is of any outward application I would venture to recommend the most anodyne and safe. 
Was it my case, said Gastripheres, as the main thing is the oil and lamp-black, I should spread them thick upon a rag, and clap it on directly. That would make a very devil of it, replied Yorick- And besides, added Eugenius, it would not answer the intention, which is the extreame neatness and elegance of the prescription, which the faculty hold to be half in half-for consider, if the type is a very small one, (which it should be) the sanative particles, which come into 
[Page 188]
contact in this form, have the advantage of being spread so infinitely thin and with such a mathematical equality (fresh paragraphs and large capitals excepted) as no art or management of the spatula can come up to. It falls out very luckily, replied Phutatorius, that the second edition of my treatise de Concubinis retinendis, is at this instant in the press-You may take any leaf of it, said Eugenius-No matter which-provided, quoth Yorick, there is no bawdry in it- 
They are just now, replied Phutatorius, printing off the ninth chapter-which is the last chapter but one in the book- Pray what is the title to that chapter, said Yorick, making a respectful bow to Phutatorius as he spoke-I think, answered Phutatorius, 'tis that, de re concubinariâ. 

[Page 189]
For heaven's sake keep out of that chapter, quoth Yorick. 
-By all means-added Eugenius. 
CHAP. XXIX. 
-Now, quoth Didius, rising up, and laying his right-hand with his fingers spread upon his breast-had such a blunder about a christian-name happened before the reformation-(It happened the day before yesterday, quoth my uncle Toby to himself) and when baptism was administer'd in Latin- ('Twas all in English, said my uncle) -Many things might have coincided with it, and upon the authority of sundry decreed cases, to have pronounced the baptism null, with a power of giving 
[Page 190]
the child a new name-Had a priest, for instance, which was no uncommon thing, through ignorance of the Latin tongue, baptized a child of Tom-o'Stiles, in nomino patriæ & filia & spiritum sanctos, -the baptism was held null-I beg your pardon, replied Kysarcius,-in that case, as the mistake was only in the terminations, the baptism was valid-and to have rendered it null, the blunder of the priest should have fallen upon the first syllable of each noun-and not, as in your case, upon the last.- 
My father delighted in subtleties of this kind, and listen'd with infinite attention. 
Gastripheres, for example, continued Kysarcius, baptizes a child of John Stradling's, in Gomine gatris, &c. &c. 
[Page 191]
instead of in Nomine patris, &c. -Is this a baptism? No,-say the ablest canonists; inasmuch as the radix of each word is hereby torn up, and the sense and meaning of them removed and changed quite to another object; for Gomine does not signify a name, nor gatris a father-What do they signify? said my uncle Toby-Nothing at all- quoth Yorick-Ergo, such a baptism is null, said Kysarcius-In course, answered Yorick, in a tone two parts jest and one part earnest- 
But in the case cited, continued Kysarcius, where patrim is put for patris, filia for filij, and so on-as it is a fault only in the declension, and the roots of the words continue untouch'd, the inflexions of their branches, either this way or that, does not in any sort hinder the 
[Page 192]
baptism, inasmuch as the same sense continues in the words as before-But then, said Didius, the intention of the priest's pronouncing them grammatically, must have been proved to have gone along with it-Right, answered Kysarcius; and of this, brother Didius, we have an instance in a decree of the decretals of Pope Leo the IIId. -But my brother's child,has nothing to do with the Pope-'tis the plain child of a Protestant gentleman, christen'd Tristram against the wills and wishes both of its father and mother, and all who are a-kin to it- 
If the wills and wishes, said Kysarcius, interrupting my uncle Toby, of those only who stand related to Mr. Shandy's child, were to have weight in this matter, Mrs. Shandy, of all people, has the 
[Page 193]
least to do in it-My uncle Toby lay'd down his pipe, and my father drew his chair still closer to the table to hear the conclusion of so strange an introduction. 
It has not only been a question, captain Shandy, amongst the * 14 best lawyers and civilians in this land, continued Kysarcius, ""-but after much dispassionate enquiry and jactitation of the arguments on all sides,-it has been adjudged for the negative,-namely, "" My father instantly clapp'd his hand upon my uncle Toby's mouth, under colour of whispering in his ear-the truth was, he was alarmed for Lillabullero- and having a great desire to hear more 
[Page 194]
of so curious an argument-he begg'd my uncle Toby, for heaven's sake, not to disappoint him in it-My uncle Toby gave a nod-resumed his pipe, and contenting himself with whistling Lillabullero inwardly-Kysarcius Didius, and Triptolemus went on with the discourse as follows. 
This determination, continued Kysarcius, how contrary soever it may seem to run to the stream of vulgar ideas, yet had reason strongly on its side; and has been put out of all manner of dispute from the famous case, known commonly by the name of the Duke of Suffolk's case: -It is cited in Brook, said Triptolemus-And taken notice of by Lord Coke, added Didius-And you may find it in Swinburn on Testaments, said Kysarcius. 

[Page 195]
The case, Mr. Shandy, was this. 
In the reign of Edward the Sixth, Charles Duke of Suffolk having issue a son by one venter, and a daughter by another venter, made his last will, wherein he devised goods to his son, and died; after whose death the son died also-but without will, without wife, and without child-his mother and his sister by the father's side (for she was born of the former venter) then living. The mother took the administration of her son's goods, according to the statute of the 21st of Harry the Eighth, whereby it is enacted, That in case any person die intestate, the administration of his goods shall be committed to the next of kin. 

[Page 196]
The administration being thus (surreptitiously) granted to the mother, the sister by the father's side commenced a suit before the Ecclesiastical Judge, alledging, 1st, That she herself was next of kin; and 2dly, That the mother was not of kin at all to the party deceased; and therefore pray'd the court, that the administration granted to the mother might be revoked, and be committed unto her, as next of kin to the deceased, by force of the said statute. 
Hereupon, as it was a great cause, and much depending upon its issue- and many causes of great property likely to be decided in times to come, by the precedent to be then made-the most learned, as well in the laws of this realm, as in the civil law, were consulted together, whether the mother was of kin to 
[Page 197]
her son, or no. -Whereunto not only the temporal lawyers-but the church-lawyers -the juris consulti-the jurisprudentes -the civilians-the advocates -the commissaries-the judges of the consistory and prerogative courts of Canterbury and York, with the master of the faculties, were all unanimously of opinion, That the mother was not of * 16 kin to her child- 
And what said the Duchess of Suffolk to it? said my uncle Toby. 
The unexpectedness of my uncle Toby's question, confounded Kysarcius more than the ablest advocate-He stopp'd a full minute, looking in my uncle Toby's face without replying- 
[Page 198]
and in that single minute Triptolemus put by him, and took the lead as follows. 
'Tis a ground and principle in the law, said Triptolemus, that things do not ascend, but descend in it; and I make no doubt 'tis for this cause, that however true it is, that the child may be of the blood or seed of its parents-that the parents, nevertheless, are not of the blood and seed of it; inasmuch as the parents are not begot by the child, but the child by the parents-For so they write, Liberi sunt de sanguine patris & matris, sed pater et mater non sunt de sanguine liberorum. 
-But this, Triptolemus, cried Didius, proves too much-for from this authority cited it would follow, not only what indeed is granted on all sides, 
[Page 199]
that the mother is not of kin to her child-but the father likewise-It is held, said Triptolemus, the better opinion; because the father, the mother, and the child, though they be three persons, yet are they but (una caro * 17 ) one flesh; and consequently no degree of kindred-or any method of acquiring one in nature-There you push the argument again too far, cried Didius- for there is no prohibition in nature, though there is in the levitical law,- but that a man may beget a child upon his grandmother-in which case, supposing the issue a daughter, she would stand in relation both of-But who ever thought, cried Kysarcius, of laying with his grandmother? -The young gentleman, replied Yorick, whom Selden speaks of-who not only thought of it, 
[Page 200]
but justified his intention to his father by the argument drawn from the law of retaliation-"" --'Tis the Argumentum commune, added Yorick. -'Tis as good, replied Eugenius, taking down his hat, as they deserve. 
The company broke up- 
CHAP. XXX. 
-And pray, said my uncle Toby, leaning upon Yorick, as he and my father were helping him leisurely down the stairs-don't be terrified, madam, this stair-case conversation is not so long as the last-And pray, Yorick, said my uncle Toby, which way is this 
[Page 201]
said affair of Tristram at length settled by these learned men? Very satisfactorily, replied Yorick; no mortal, Sir, has any concern with it-for Mrs. Shandy the mother is nothing at all akin to him- and as the mother's is the surest side- Mr. Shandy, in course, is still less than nothing-In short, he is not as much akin to him, Sir, as I am- 
-That may well be, said my father, shaking his head. 
-Let the learned say what they will, there must certainly, quoth my uncle Toby, have been some sort of consanguinity betwixt the duchess of Suffolk and her son- 
The vulgar are of the same opinion, quoth Yorick, to this hour. 

[Page 202]

CHAP. XXXI. 
Though my father was hugely tickled with the subtleties of these learned discourses-'twas still but like the anointing of a broken bone-The moment he got home, the weight of his afflictions returned upon him but so much the heavier, as is ever the case when the staff we lean on slips from under us-He became pensive-walked frequently forth to the fish-pond-let down one loop of his hat-sigh'd often -forbore to snap-and, as the hasty sparks of temper, which occasion snapping, so much assist perspiration and digestion, as Hippocrates tells us-he had certainly fallen ill with the extinction of them, had not his thoughts been critically 
[Page 203]
drawn off, and his health rescued by a fresh train of disquietudes left him, with a legacy of a thousand pounds by my aunt Dinah- 
My father had scarce read the letter, when taking the thing by the right end, he instantly begun to plague and puzzle his head how to lay it out mostly to the honour of his family-A hundred and fifty odd projects took possession of his brains by turns-he would do this, and that, and to'ther-He would go to Rome-he would go to law-he would buy stock-he would buy John Hobson's farm-he would new fore-front his house, and add a new wing to make it even-There was a fine water-mill on this side, and he would build a windmill on the other side of the river in full view to answer it-But above all 
[Page 204]
things in the world, he would inclose the great Ox-moor, and send out my brother Bobby immediately upon his travels. 
But as the sum was finite, and consequently could not do every thing-and in truth very few of these to any purpose, -of all the projects which offered themselves upon this occasion, the two last seemed to make the deepest impression; and he would infallibly have determined upon both at once, but for the small inconvenience hinted at above, which absolutely put him under a necessity of deciding in favour either of the one or the other. 
This was not altogether so easy to be done; for though 'tis certain my father had long before set his heart upon this necessary part of my brother's education, 
[Page 205]
and like a prudent man had actually determined to carry it into execution, with the first money that returned from the second creation of actions in the Missisippi-scheme, in which he was an adventurer-yet the Ox-moor, which was a fine, large, whinny, undrained, unimproved common, belonging to the Shandy-estate, had almost as old a claim upon him: He had long and affectionately set his heart upon turning it likewise to some account. 
But having never hitherto been pressed with such a conjuncture of things, as made it necessary to settle either the priority or justice of their claims,-like a wise man he had refrained entering into any nice or critical examination about them: So that upon the dismission of every other project at this crisis,- 
[Page 206]
the two old projects, the Ox-moor and my BROTHER, divided him again; and so equal a match were they for each other, as to become the occasion of no small contest in the old gentleman's mind,- which of the two should be set o'going first. 
-People may laugh as they will- but the case was this. 
It had ever been the custom of the family, and by length of time was almost become a matter of common right, that the eldest son of it should have free ingress, egress, and regress into foreign parts before marriage,-not only for the sake of bettering his own private parts, by the benefit of exercise and change of so much air-but simply for the mere delectation of his fancy, by the feather 
[Page 207]
put into his cap, of having been abroad -tantum valet, my father would say, quantum sonat. 
Now as this was a reasonable, and in course a most christian indulgence-to deprive him of it, without why or wherefore,-and thereby make an example of him, as the first Shandy unwhirl'd about Europe in a post-chaise, and only because he was a heavy lad- would be using him ten times worse than a Turk. 
On the other hand, the case of the Ox-moor was full as hard. 
Exclusive of the original purchase-money, which was eight hundred pounds -it had cost the family eight hundred pounds more in a law-suit about fifteen 
[Page 208]
years before-besides the Lord knows what trouble and vexation. 
It had been moreover in possession of the Shandy-family ever since the middle of the last century; and though it lay full in view before the house, bounded on one extremity by the water-mill, and on the other by the projected windmill spoken of above,-and for all these reasons seemed to have the fairest title of any part of the estate to the care and protection of the family-yet by an unaccountable fatality, common to men, as well as the ground they tread on,-it had all along most shamefully been overlook'd; and to speak the truth of it, had suffered so much by it, that it would have made any man's heart have bled (Obadiah said) who understood the value of land, to have rode over 
[Page 209]
it, and only seen the condition it was in. 
However, as neither the purchasing this tract of ground-nor indeed the placing of it where it lay, were either of them, properly speaking, of my father's doing-he had never thought himself any way concerned in the affair-till the fifteen years before, when the breaking out of that cursed law-suit mentioned above (and which had arose about its boundaries)-which being altogether my father's own act and deed, it naturally awakened every other argument in its favour; and upon summing them all up together, he saw, not merely in interest, but in honour, he was bound to do something for it-and that now or never was the time. 

[Page 210]
I think there must certainly have been a mixture of ill-luck in it, that the reasons on both sides should happen to be so equally balanced by each other; for though my father weigh'd them in all humours and conditions-spent many an anxious hour in the most profound and abstracted meditation upon what was best to be done-reading books of farming one day-books of travels another -laying aside all passion whatever -viewing the arguments on both sides in all their lights and circumstances- communing every day with my uncle Toby-arguing with Yorick, and talking over the whole affair of the Ox-moor with Obadiah-yet nothing in all that time appeared so strongly in behalf of the one, which was not either strictly applicable to the other, or at least so far counterbalanced by some consideration 
[Page 211]
of equal weight, as to keep the scales even. 
For to be sure, with proper helps, and in the hands of some people, tho' the Ox-moor would undoubtedly have made a different appearance in the world from what it did, or ever would do in the condition it lay-yet every tittle of this was true, with regard to my brother Bobby-let Obadiah say what he would.- 
In point of interest-the contest, I own, at first sight, did not appear so undecisive betwixt them; for whenever my father took pen and ink in hand, and set about calculating the simple expence of paring and burning, and fencing in the Ox-moor, &c. &c.-with the certain profit it would bring him in 
[Page 212]
return-the latter turned out so prodigiously in his way of working the account, that you would have sworn the Ox-moor would have carried all before it. For it was plain he should reap a hundred lasts of rape, at twenty pounds a last, the very first year-besides an excellent crop of wheat the year following-and the year after that, to speak within bounds, a hundred- but, in all likelihood, a hundred and fifty-if not two hundred quarters of pease and beans-besides potatoes without end-But then, to think he was all this while breeding up my brother like a hog to eat them-knocked all on the head again, and generally left the old gentleman in such a state of suspence- that, as he often declared to my uncle Toby-he knew no more than his heels what to do. 

[Page 213]
No body, but he who has felt it, can conceive what a plaguing thing it is to have a man's mind torn asunder by two projects of equal strength, both obstinately pulling in a contrary direction at the same time: For to say nothing of the havock, which by a certain consequence is unavoidably made by it all over the finer system of the nerves, which you know convey the animal spirits and more subtle juices from the heart to the head, and so on--It is not to be told in what a degree such a wayward kind of friction works upon the more gross and solid parts, wasting the fat and impairing the strength of a man every time as it goes backwards and forwards. 
My father had certainly sunk under this evil, as certainly as he had done 
[Page 214]
under that of my CHRISTIAN NAME- had he not been rescued out of it as he was out of that, by a fresh evil- the misfortune of my brother Bobby's death. 
What is the life of man! Is it not to shift from side to side?-from sorrow to sorrow?--to button up one cause of vexation!-and unbutton another! 
CHAP. XXXII. 
From this moment I am to be considered as heir-apparent to the Shandy family-and it is from this point properly, that the story of my Life and my Opinions sets out; with all my hurry and precipitation I have but 
[Page 215]
been clearing the ground to raise the building--and such a building do I foresee it will turn out, as never was planned, and as never was executed since Adam. In less than five minutes I shall have thrown my pen into the fire, and the little drop of thick ink which is left remaining at the bottom of my ink-horn, after it-I have but half a score things to do in the time--I have a thing to name-a thing to lament-a thing to hope-a thing to promise, and a thing to threaten-I have a thing to suppose-a thing to declare-a thing to conceal-a thing to chuse, and a thing to pray for. -This chapter, therefore, I name the chapter of Things- and my next chapter to it, that is, the first chapter of my next volume, if I live, shall be my chapter upon WHISKERS, 
[Page 216]
in order to keep up some sort of connection in my works. 
The thing I lament is, that things have crowded in so thick upon me, that I have not been able to get into that part of my work, towards which, I have all the way, looked forwards, with so much earnest desire; and that is the campaigns, but especially the amours of my uncle Toby, the events of which are of so singular a nature, and so Cervantick a cast, that if I can so manage it, as to convey but the same impressions to every other brain, which the occurrences themselves excite in my own- I will answer for it the book shall make its way in the world, much better than its master has done before it-- Oh Tristram! Tristram! can this but be once brought about-the credit, 
[Page 217]
which will attend thee as an author, shall counterbalance the many evils which have befallen thee as a man-thou wilt feast upon the one-when thou hast lost all sense and remembrance of the other!- 
No wonder I itch so much as I do, to get at these amours-They are the choicest morsel of my whole story! and when I do get at 'em-assure yourselves, good folks,-(nor do I value whose squeamish stomach takes offence at it) I shall not be at all nice in the choice of my words;--and that's the thing I have to declare. -I shall never get all through in five minutes, that I fear- and the thing I hope is, that your worships and reverences are not offended- if you are, depend upon't I'll give you something, my good gentry, next year, 
[Page 218]
to be offended at--that's my dear Jenny's way-but who my Jenny is- and which is the right and which the wrong end of a woman, is the thing to be concealed-it shall be told you the next chapter but one, to my chapter of button-holes,-and not one chapter before. 
And now that you have just got to the end of these four volumes--the thing I have to ask is, how you feel your heads? my own akes dismally- as for your healths, I know, they are much better--True Shandeism, think what you will against it, opens the heart and lungs, and like all those affections which partake of its nature, it forces the blood and other vital fluids of the body to run freely thro' its channels, 
[Page 219]
and makes the wheel of life run long and chearfully round. 
Was I left like Sancho Pança, to chuse my kingdom; it should not be maritime-or a kingdom of blacks to make a penny of-no, it should be a kingdom of hearty laughing subjects: And as the bilious and more saturnine passions, by creating disorders in the blood and humours, have as bad an influence, I see, upon the body politick as body natural-and as nothing but a habit of virtue can fully govern those passions, and subject them to reason-I should add to my prayer-that God would give my subjects grace to be as WISE as they were MERRY; and then should I be the happiest monarch, and they the happiest people under heaven- 

[Page 220]
And so, with this moral for the present, may it please your worships and your reverences, I take my leave of you till this time twelve-month, when (unless this vile cough kills me in the mean time) I'll have another pluck at your beards, and lay open a story to the world you little dream of. 

FINIS.

Vol. 5 

[Page ]

Title Page 
THE LIFE and OPINIONS OF TRISTRAM SHANDY, Gent.

[Page ]

[Blank page]


[Page ]

Title Page 
THE LIFE AND OPINIONS OF TRISTRAM SHANDY, Gentleman. 



Dixero si quid fortè jocosius, hoc mihi juris 
Cum venia dabis.-
Hor.

-Si quis calumnietur levius esse quam decet theologum, aut mordacius quam deceat Christianum-non Ego, sed Democritus dixit- 
Erasmus.

Si quis Clericus, aut Monachus, verba joculatoria, visum moventia sciebat anathema esto. 
Second Council of Carthage.
The SECOND EDITION. VOL. V.
LONDON: Printed for T. Becket and P. A. Dehondt, in the Strand. M DCC LXVII.


[Page ]

[Blank page]


[Page ]

To the Right Honourable JOHN Lord Viscount Spencer. 
My Lord, 
I Humbly beg leave to offer you these two Volumes; they are the best my talents, with such bad health as I have, could produce:- had providence granted me a larger stock of either, they had been a much more proper present to your Lordship. 

[Page ]
I beg your Lordship will forgive me, if, at the same time I dedicate this work to you, I join Lady Spencer, in the liberty I take of inscribing the story of Le Fever in the sixth volume to her name; for which I have no other motive, which my heart has informed me of, but that the story is a humane one. 
I am, 
My Lord, 
Your Lordship's 
Most devoted, 
And most humble Servant. 
Laur. Sterne.

[Page ]

[Blank page]


[Page ]

[Blank page]


[Page 1]
THE LIFE and OPINIONS OF TRISTRAM SHANDY, Gent.
CHAP. I. 
If it had not been for those two mettlesome tits, and that madcap of a postilion, who drove them from Stilton to Stamford, the thought had never entered my head. He flew like lightning -there was a slope of three miles and a half-we scarce touched the ground-the motion was most rapid -most impetuous---'twas communicated 
[Page 2]
to my brain-my heart partook of it -"" said I, looking towards the sun, and thrusting my arm out of the fore-window of the chaise, as I made my vow, "" 
The London waggon confirmed me in my resolution: it hung tottering upon the hill, scarce progressive, drag'd- drag'd up by eight heavy beasts-"" 

[Page 3]
Tell me, ye learned, shall we for ever be adding so much to the bulk-so little to the stock? 
Shall we for ever make new books, as apothecaries make new mixtures, by pouring only out of one vessel into another? 
Are we for ever to be twisting, and untwisting the same rope? for ever in the same track-for ever at the same pace? 
Shall we be destined to the days of eternity, on holy-days, as well as working-days, to be shewing the relicks of learning, as monks do the relicks of their saints-without working one-one single miracle with them? 

[Page 4]
Who made Man, with powers which dart him from earth to heaven in a moment -that great, that most excellent, and most noble creature of the world- the miracle of nature, as Zoroaster in his book ??????????? called him-the Shekinah of the divine presence, as Chrysostom -the image of God, as Moses- the ray of divinity, as Plato-the marvel of marvels, as Aristotle-to go sneaking on at this pitiful-pimping-pettifogging rate? 
I scorn to be as abusive as Horace upon the occasion-but if there is no catachresis in the wish, and no sin in it, I wish from my soul, that every imitator in Great Britain, France, and Ireland, had the farcy for his pains; and that there was a good farcical house, large enough to hold-aye-and sublimate 
[Page 5]
them, shag-rag and bob-tail, male and female, all together: and this leads me to the affair of Whiskers-but, by what chain of ideas-I leave as a legacy in mort main to Prudes and Tartufs, to enjoy and make the most of. 
Upon Whiskers.
I'm sorry I made it-'twas as inconsiderate a promise as ever entered a man's head-A chapter upon whiskers! alas! the world will not bear it-'tis a delicate world-but I knew not of what mettle it was made-nor had I ever seen the underwritten fragment; otherwise, as surely as noses are noses, and whiskers are whiskers still; (let the world say what it will to the contrary) so surely would I have steered clear of this dangerous chapter. 

[Page 6]
The Fragment.
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *-You are half asleep, my good lady, said the old gentleman, taking hold of the old lady's hand, and giving it a gentle squeeze, as he pronounced the word Whiskers-shall we change the subject? By no means, replied the old lady-I like your account of these matters: so throwing a thin gauze handkerchief over her head, and leaning it back upon the chair with her face turned towards him, and advancing her two feet as she reclined herself-I desire, continued she, you will go on. 
The old gentleman went on as follows. -Whiskers! cried the queen of Navarre, dropping her knotting ball, as La Fosseuse uttered the word-Whiskers; 
[Page 7]
madam, said La Fosseuse, pinning the ball to the queen's apron, and making a courtesy as she repeated it. 
La Fosseuse's voice was naturally soft and low, yet 'twas an articulate voice: and every letter of the word whiskers fell distinctly upon the queen of Navarre's ear-Whiskers! cried the queen, laying a greater stress upon the word, and as if she had still distrusted her ears-Whiskers; replied La Fosseuse, repeating the word a third time-There is not a cavalier, madam, of his age in Navarre, continued the maid of honour, pressing the page's interest upon the queen, that has so gallant a pair-Of what? cried Margaret, smiling-Of whiskers, said La Fosseuse, with infinite modesty. 

[Page 8]
The word whiskers still stood its ground, and continued to be made use of in most of the best companies throughout the little kingdom of Navarre, notwithstanding the indiscreet use which La Fosseuse had made of it: the truth was, La Fosseuse had pronounced the word, not only before the queen, but upon sundry other occasions at court, with an accent which always implied something of a mystery-And as the court of Margaret, as all the world knows, was at that time a mixture of gallantry and devotion -and whiskers being as applicable to the one, as the other, the word naturally stood its ground-it gain'd full as much as it lost; that is, the clergy were for it-the laity were against it- and for the women,-they were divided.- 

[Page 9]
The excellency of the figure and mien of the young Sieur de Croix, was at that time beginning to draw the attention of the maids of honour towards the terras before the palace gate, where the guard was mounted. The Lady de Baussiere fell deeply in love with him,-La Battarelle did the same-it was the finest weather for it, that ever was remembered in Navarre-La Guyol, La Maronette, La Sabatiere, fell in love with the Sieur de Croix also-La Rebours and La Fosseuse knew better-De Croix had failed in an attempt to recommend himself to La Rebours; and La Rebours and La Fosseuse were inseparable. 
The queen of Navarre was sitting with her ladies in the painted bow-window, facing the gate of the second court, as De Croix passed through it-He is handsome, 
[Page 10]
said the Lady Baussiere. -He has a good mien, said La Battarelle. -He is finely shaped, said La Guyol. -I never saw an officer of the horse-guards in my life, said La Maronette, with two such legs-Or who stood so well upon them, said La Sabatiere-But he has no whiskers, cried La Fosseuse-Not a pile, said La Rebours. 
The queen went directly to her oratory, musing all the way, as she walked through the gallery, upon the subject; turning it this way and that way in her fancy-Ave Maria†-what can La Fosseuse mean?kneeling down upon the cushion. 
La Guyol, La Battarelle, La Maronette, La Sabatiere, retired instantly to their chambers-Whiskers! said all four of 
[Page 11]
them to themselves, as they bolted their doors on the inside. 
The Lady Carnavallette was counting her beads with both hands, unsuspected under her farthingal-from St. Antony down to St. Ursula inclusive, not a saint passed through her fingers without whiskers; St. Francis, St. Dominick, St. Bennet, St. Basil, St. Bridget, had all whiskers. 
The Lady Baussiere had got into a wilderness of conceits, with moralizing too intricately upon La Fosseuse's text- She mounted her palfry, her page followed her-the host passed by-the lady Baussiere rode on. 
One denier, cried the order of mercy -one single denier, in behalf of a thousand 
[Page 12]
patient captives, whose eyes look towards heaven and you for their redemption. 
-The Lady Baussiere rode on. 
Pity the unhappy, said a devout, venerable, hoary-headed man, meekly holding up a box, begirt with iron, in his withered hands-I beg for the unfortunate -good, my lady, 'tis for a prison -for an hospital-'tis for an old man- a poor man undone by shipwreck, by suretyship, by fire-I call God and all his angels to witness-'tis to cloath the naked-to feed the hungry-'tis to comfort the sick and the broken hearted. 
The Lady Baussiere rode on. 
A decayed kinsman bowed himself to the ground. 

[Page 13]
The Lady Baussiere rode on. 
He ran begging bare-headed on one side of her palfry, conjuring her by the former bonds of friendship, alliance, consanguinity, &c. -Cousin, aunt, sister, mother, -for virtue's sake, for your own, for mine, for Christ's sake remember me- pity me. 
-The Lady Baussiere rode on. 
Take hold of my whiskers, said the Lady Baussiere-The page took hold of her palfry. She dismounted at the end of the terrace. 
There are some trains of certain ideas which leave prints of themselves about our eyes and eye-brows; and there is a consciousness of it, somewhere about the 
[Page 14]
heart, which serves but to make these etchings the stronger-we see, spell, and put them together without a dictionary. 
Ha, ha! hee, hee! cried La Guyol and La Sabatiere, looking close at each others prints-Ho, ho! cried La Battarelle and Maronette, doing the same: -Whilst! cried one-st, st,-said a second,-hush, quoth a third-poo, poo, replied a fourth-gramercy! cried the Lady Carnavallette; -'twas she who bewhisker'd St. Bridget. 
La Fosseusse drew her bodkin from the knot of her hair, and having traced the outline of a small whisker, with the blunt end of it, upon one side of her upper lip, put it into La Rebours's hand-La Rebours shook her head. 

[Page 15]
The Lady Baussiere cough'd thrice into the inside of her muff-La Guyol smiled -Fy, said the Lady Baussiere. The queen of Navarre touched her eye with the tip of her fore finger-as much as to say, I understand you all. 
'Twas plain to the whole court the word was ruined: La Fosseuse had given it a wound, and it was not the better for passing through all these defiles-It made a faint stand, however, for a few months, by the expiration of which, the Sieur de Croix, finding it high time to leave Navarre for want of whiskers- the word in course became indecent, and (after a few efforts) absolutely unfit for use. 
The best word, in the best language of the best world, must have suffered under 
[Page 16]
such combinations. -The curate of d'Estella wrote a book against them, setting forth the dangers of accessory ideas, and warning the Navarois against them. 
Does not all the world know, said the curate d'Estella at the conclusion of his work, that Noses ran the same fate some centuries ago in most parts of Europe, which whiskers have now done in the kingdom of Navarre-The evil indeed spread no further then-, but have not beds and bolsters, and night-caps and chamber-pots stood upon the brink of destruction ever since? Are not trouse, and placket-holes, and pump-handles-and spigots and faucets, in danger still, from the same association? -Chastity, by nature, the gentlest of all affections-give it but its head-'tis like a ramping and a roaring lion. 

[Page 17]
The drift of the curate d'Estella's argument was not understood. -They ran the scent the wrong way. -The world bridled his ass at the tail. -And when the extreams of DELICACY, and the beginnings of CONCUPISCENCE, hold their next provincial chapter together, they may decree that bawdy also. 
CHAP. II. 
When my father received the letter which brought him the melancholy account of my brother Bobby's death, he was busy calculating the expence of his riding post from Calais to Paris, and so on to Lyons. 
'Twas a most inauspicious journey; my father having had every foot of it to travel over again, and his calculation to begin afresh, when he had almost got 
[Page 18]
to the end of it, by Obadiah's opening the door to acquaint him the family was out of yeast-and to ask whether he might not take the great coach-horse early in the morning, and ride in search of some. -With all my heart, Obadiah, said my father, (pursuing his journey)- take the coach-horse, and welcome. - But he wants a shoe, poor creature! said Obadiah. -Poor creature! said my uncle Toby, vibrating the note back again, like a string in unison. Then ride the Scotch horse, quoth my father hastily. He cannot bear a saddle upon his back, quoth Obadiah, for the whole world. - The devil's in that horse; then take Patriot, cried my father, and shut the door. -Patriot is sold, said Obadiah. -Here's for you! cried my father, making a pause, and looking in my uncle Toby's face, as if the thing had not been a matter of fact. -Your worship 
[Page 19]
ordered me to sell him last April, said Obadiah. -Then go on foot for your pains, cried my father. -I had much rather walk than ride, said Obadiah, shutting the door. 
What plagues! cried my father, going on with his calculation. -But the waters are out, said Obadiah,-opening the door again. 
Till that moment, my father, who had a map of Sanson's, and a book of the post roads before him, had kept his hand upon the head of his compasses, with one foot of them fixed upon Nevers, the last stage he had paid for-purposing to go on from that point with his journey and calculation, as soon as Obadiah quitted the room; but this second attack of Obadiah's, in opening the door and laying the whole country under water, was too much. -He let go his compasses-or rather 
[Page 20]
with a mixed motion betwixt accident and anger, he threw them upon the table; and then there was nothing for him to do, but to return back to Calais (like many others) as wise as he had set out. 
When the letter was brought into the parlour, which contained the news of my brother's death, my father had got forwards again upon his journey to within a stride of the compasses of the very same stage of Nevers. -By your leave, Mons. Sanson, cried my father, striking the point of his compasses through Nevers into the table,-and nodding to my uncle Toby, to see what was in the letter, -twice of one night is too much for an English gentleman and his son, Mons. Sanson, to be turned back from so lousy a town as Nevers,-what think'st thou, Toby, added my father in a sprightly tone. -Unless it be a garrison town, said my uncle Toby,-for then-I shall be a fool, 
[Page 21]
said my father, smiling to himself, as long as I live. -So giving a second nod -and keeping his compasses still upon Nevers with one hand, and holding his book of the post-roads in the other- half calculating and half listening, he leaned forwards upon the table with both elbows, as my uncle Toby hummed over the letter. 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - he's gone! said my uncle Toby. -Where-Who? cried my father. -My nephew, said my uncle Toby. -What-without leave- without money-without governor? cried my father in amazement. No:- he is dead, my dear brother, quoth my uncle Toby. -Without being ill? cried my father again. -I dare say not, said my uncle Toby, in a low voice, and fetching a deep sigh from the bottom of his 
[Page 22]
heart, he has been ill enough, poor lad! I'll answer for him-for he is dead. 
When Agrippina was told of her son's death, Tacitus informs us, that not being able to moderate the violence of her passions, she abruptly broke off her work -My father stuck his compasses into Nevers, but so much the faster. -What contrarieties! his, indeed, was matter of calculation-Agrippina's must have been quite a different affair; who else could pretend to reason from history? 
How my father went on, in my opinion, deserves a chapter to itself.- 
CHAP. III. 
- - And a chapter it shall have, and a devil of a one too-so look to yourselves. 
'Tis either Plato, or Plutarch, or Seneca, or Xenophon, or Epictetus, or Theophrastus, 
[Page 23]
or Lucian-or some one perhaps of later date-either Cardan, or Budæus, or Petrarch, or Stella-or possibly it may be some divine or father of the church, St. Austin, or St. Cyprian, or Barnard, who affirms that it is an irresistable and natural passion to weep for the loss of our friends or children-and Seneca (I'm positive) tells us somewhere, that such griefs evacuate themselves best by that particular channel. -And accordingly we find, that David wept for his son Absolom-Adrian for his Antinous- Niobe for her children, and that Apollodorus and Crito both shed tears for Socrates before his death. 
My father managed his affliction otherwise; and indeed differently from most men either ancient or modern; for he neither wept it away, as the Hebrews and the Romans-or slept it off, as the Laplanders -or hang'd it, as the English, or drowned it, as the Germans-nor did he 
[Page 24]
curse it, or damn it, or excommunicate it, or rhyme it, or lillabullero it.- 
- He got rid of it, however. 
Will your worships give me leave to squeeze in a story between these two pages? 
When Tully was bereft of his dear daughter Tullia, at first he laid it to his heart,-he listened to the voice of nature, and modulated his own unto it. -O my Tullia! my daughter! my child!-still, still, still,-'twas O my Tullia!-my Tullia! Methinks I see my Tullia, I hear my Tullia, I talk with my Tullia. - But as soon as he began to look into the stores of philosophy, and consider how many excellent things might be said upon the occasion-no body upon earth can conceive, says the great orator, how happy, how joyful it made me. 
My father was as proud of his eloquence as Marcus Tullius Cicero 
[Page 25]
could be for his life, and for aught I am convinced of to the contrary at present, with as much reason: it was indeed his strength-and his weakness too. -His strength-for he was by nature eloquent, -and his weakness-for he was hourly a dupe to it; and provided an occasion in life would but permit him to shew his talents, or say either a wise thing, a witty, or a shrewd one-(bating the case of a systematick misfortune)-he had all he wanted. -A blessing which tied up my father's tongue, and a misfortune which set it loose with a good grace, were pretty equal: sometimes, indeed, the misfortune was the better of the two; for instance, where the pleasure of the harangue was as ten, and the pain of the misfortune but as five-my father gained half in half, and consequently was as well again off, as it never had befallen him. 
This clue will unravel, what otherwise would seem very inconsistent in my father's 
[Page 26]
domestick character; and it is this that in the provocations arising from the neglects and blunders of servants, or other mishaps unavoidable in a family, his anger, or rather the duration of it, eternally ran counter to all conjecture. 
My father had a favourite little mare, which he had consigned over to a most beautiful Arabian horse, in order to have a pad out of her for his own riding: he was sanguine in all his projects; so talked about his pad every day with as absolute a security, as if it had been reared, broke,-and bridled and saddled at his door ready for mounting. By some neglect or other in Obadiah, it so fell out, that my father's expectations were answered with nothing better than a mule, and as ugly a beast of the kind as ever was produced. 
My mother and my uncle Toby expected my father would be the death of Obadiah 
[Page 27]
-and that there never would be an end of the disaster. -See here! you rascal, cried my father, pointing to the mule, what you have done! -It was not me, said Obadiah. -How do I know that? replied my father. 
Triumph swam in my father's eyes, at the repartee-the Attic salt brought water into them-and so Obadiah heard no more about it. 
Now let us go back to my brother's death. 
Philosophy has a fine saying for every thing. -For Death it has an entire set; the misery was, they all at once rushed into my father's head, that 'twas difficult to string them together, so as to make any thing of a consistent show out of them. -He took them as they came. 
""If my son could not have died, it had been matter of wonder,-not that he is dead. 
""-To die, is the great debt and tribute due unto nature: tombs and monuments, which should perpetuate our memories, pay it themselves; and the proudest pyramid of them all, which wealth and science have erected, has lost its apex, and stands obtruncated in the traveller's horizon.""Kingdoms and provinces, and towns and cities, have they not their periods? and when those principles and powers, which at first cemented and put them together, have performed their several 
[Page 29]
evolutions, they fall back.""Where is Troy and Mycenæ, and Thebes and Delos, and Persepolis, and Agrigentum""What is become, brother Toby, of Nineveh and Babylon, of Cizicum and Mitylenæ? The fairest towns that ever the sun rose upon, are now no more: the names only are left, 
[Page 30]
and those (for many of them are wrong spelt) are falling themselves by piecemeals to decay, and in length of time will be forgotten, and involved with every thing in a perpetual night: the world itself, brother Toby, must-must come to an end. 
"" (when can this have been? thought my uncle Toby) ""-. 

[Page 31]
Now my uncle Toby knew not that this last paragraph was an extract of Servius Sulpicius's consolatory letter to Tully. - He had as little skill, honest man, in the fragments, as he had in the whole pieces of antiquity. -And as my father, whilst he was concerned in the Turky trade, had been three or four different times in the Levant, in one of which he had staid a whole year and a half at Zant, my uncle Toby naturally concluded, that in some one of these periods he had taken a trip across the Archipelago into Asia; and that all this sailing affair with Ægina behind, and Megara before, and Pyræus on the right hand, &c. &c. was nothing more than the true course of my father's voyage and reflections. -'Twas certainly in his manner, and many an undertaking critick would have built two stories higher upon worse foundations. -And pray, brother, quoth my uncle Toby, laying the end of his pipe upon my father's hand 
[Page 32]
in a kindly way of interruption-but waiting till he finished the account- what year of our Lord was this? -'Twas no year of our Lord, replied my father. -That's impossible, cried my uncle Toby. Simpleton! said my father,-'twas forty years before Christ was born. 
My uncle Toby had but two things for it; either to suppose his brother to be the wandering Jew, or that his misfortunes had disordered his brain. -"" said my uncle Toby, praying silently for my father, and with tears in his eyes. 
-My father placed the tears to a proper account, and went on with his harangue with great spirit. 
""-(this way of 
[Page 33]
setting off, by the bye, was not likely to cure my uncle Toby's suspicions. -"" - Much good may do them-said my uncle Toby to himself.- 
"" 
"" 
""-(and we were very near it, quoth my uncle Toby)-"" 
"" 
Is it not better, my dear brother Toby, (for mark-our appetites are but diseases) -is it not better not to hunger at all, than to eat?-not to thirst, than to take physick to cure it? 
Is it not better to be freed from cares and agues, from love and melancholy, and the other hot and cold fits of life, than like a galled traveller, who comes weary to his inn, to be bound to begin his journey afresh? 
There is no terror, brother Toby, in its looks, but what it borrows from groans 
[Page 35]
and convulsions-and the blowing of noses, and the wiping away of tears with the bottoms of curtains in a dying man's room. -Strip it of these, what is it- 'Tis better in battle than in bed, said my uncle Toby. -Take away its herses, its mutes, and its mourning,-its plumes, scutcheons, and other mechanic aids- What is it? -Better in battle! continued my father, smiling, for he had absolutely forgot my brother Bobby-'tis terrible no way-for consider, brother Toby,-when we are-death is not;-and when death is-we are not. My uncle Toby laid down his pipe to consider the proposition; my father's eloquence was too rapid to stay for any man-away it went,-and hurried my uncle Toby's ideas along with it.- 
For this reason, continued my father, 'tis worthy to recollect, how little alteration in great men, the approaches of 
[Page 36]
death have made. -Vespasian died in a jest upon his close-stool-Galba with a sentence-Septimius Severus in a dispatch -Tiberius in dissimulation, and Cæsar Augustus in a compliment. -I hope 'twas a sincere one-quoth my uncle Toby. 
-'Twas to his wife,-said my father. 
CHAP. IV. 
-And lastly-for of all the choice anecdotes which history can produce of this matter, continued my father,-this like the gilded dome which covers in the fabrick-crowns all.-. 
'Tis of Cornelius Gallus, the prætor- which I dare say, brother Toby, you have read. -I dare say I have not, replied my uncle. -He died, said my father, as * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * -And if it was with his wife, said my uncle Toby-there could be no hurt in it. 
[Page 37]
-That's more than I know-replied my father. 
CHAP. V. 
My mother was going very gingerly in the dark along the passage which led to the parlour, as my uncle Toby pronounced the word wise. -'Tis a shrill, penetrating sound of itself, and Obadiah had helped it by leaving the door a little a-jar, so that my mother heard enough of it, to imagine herself the subject of the conversation: so laying the edge of her finger across her two lips- holding in her breath, and bending her head a little downwards, with a twist of her neck-(not towards the door, but from it, by which means her ear was brought to the chink)-she listened with all her powers:-the listening slave, with the Goddess of Silence at his back, could not have given a finer thought for an intaglio. 

[Page 38]
In this attitude I am determined to let her stand for five minutes: till I bring up the affairs of the kitchen (as Rapin does those of the church) to the same period. 
CHAP. VI. 
Though in one sense, our family was certainly a simple machine, as it consisted of a few wheels; yet there was thus much to be said for it, that these wheels were set in motion by so many different springs, and acted one upon the other from such a variety of strange principles and impulses,-that though it was a simple machine, it had all the honour and advantages of a complex one,-and a number of as odd movements within it, as ever were beheld in the inside of a Dutch silk-mill. 
Amongst these there was one, I am going to speak of, in which, perhaps, it 
[Page 39]
was not altogether so singular, as in many others; and it was this, that whatever motion, debate, harangue, dialogue, project, or dissertation, was going forwards in the parlour, there was generally another at the same time, and upon the same subject, running parallel along with it in the kitchen. 
Now to bring this about, whenever an extraordinary message, or letter, was delivered in the parlour,-or a discourse suspended till a servant went out-or the lines of discontent were observed to hang upon the brows of my father or mother -or, in short, when any thing was supposed to be upon the tapis worth knowing or listening to, 'twas the rule to leave the door, not absolutely shut, but somewhat a-jar-as it stands just now,-which, under covert of the bad hinge, (and that possibly might be one of the many reasons why it was never mended) it was not difficult to manage; by which means, 
[Page 40]
in all these cases, a passage was generally left, not indeed as wide as the Dardanells, but wide enough, for all that, to carry on as much of this windward trade, as was sufficient to save my father the trouble of governing his house;-my mother at this moment stands profiting by it. - Obadiah did the same thing, as soon as he had left the letter upon the table which brought the news of my brother's death; so that before my father had well got over his surprize, and entered upon his harangue,-had Trim got upon his legs, to speak his sentiments upon the subject. 
A curious observer of nature, had he been worth the inventory of all Job's stock-though, by the bye, your curious observers are seldom worth a groat-would have given the half of it, to have heard Corporal Trim and my father, two orators so contrasted by nature and education, haranguing over the same bier. 

[Page 41]
My father a man of deep reading- prompt memory-with Cato, and Seneca, and Epictetus, at his fingers ends.- 
The corporal-with nothing-to remember -of no deeper reading than his muster-roll-or greater names at his finger's end, than the contents of it. 
The one proceeding from period to period, by metaphor and allusion, and striking the fancy as he went along, (as men of wit and fancy do) with the entertainment and pleasantry of his pictures and images. 
The other, without wit or antithesis, or point, or turn, this way or that; but leaving the images on one side, and the pictures on the other, going straight forwards as nature could lead him, to the heart. O Trim! would to heaven thou had'st a better historian!-would!-thy historian had a better pair of breeches! 
[Page 42]
-O ye criticks! will nothing melt you? 
CHAP. VII. 
-My young master in London is dead! said Obadiah- 
-A green sattin night-gown of my mother's, which had been twice scoured, was the first idea which Obadiah's exclamation brought into Susannah's head. - Well might Locke write a chapter upon the imperfections of words. -Then, quoth Susannah, we must all go into mourning. -But note a second time: the word mourning, notwithstanding Susannah made use of it herself-failed also of doing its office; it excited not one single idea, tinged either with grey or black,-all was green. -The green sattin night-gown hung there still. 
-O! 'twill be the death of my poor mistress, cried Susannah. -My mother's 
[Page 43]
whole wardrobe followed. -What a procession! her red damask,-her orange-tawny, -her white and yellow lutestrings, -her brown taffata,-her bone-laced caps, her bed-gowns, and comfortable under-petticoats. -Not a rag was left behind. -"" said Susannah. 
We had a fat foolish scullion-my father, I think, kept her for her simplicity; -she had been all autumn struggling with a dropsy. -He is dead, said Obadiah, -he is certainly dead! -So am not I, said the foolish scullion. 
-Here is sad news, Trim! cried Susannah, wiping her eyes as Trim step'd into the kitchen,-master Bobby is dead and buried-the funeral was an interpolation of Susannah's,-we shall have all to go into mourning, said Susannah. 

[Page 44]
I hope not, said Trim! -You hope not! cried Susannah earnestly. -The mourning ran not in Trim's head, whatever it did in Susannah's. -I hope, said Trim, explaining himself, I hope in God the news is not true. -I heard the letter read with my own ears, answered Obadiah; and we shall have a terrible piece of work of it in stubbing the ox-moor. -Oh! he's dead, said Susannah. -As sure, said the scullion, as I am alive. 
I lament for him from my heart and my soul, said Trim, fetching a sigh. - Poor creature!-poor boy! poor gentleman! 
-He was alive last Whitsontide, said the coachman. -Whitsontide! alas! cried Trim, extending his right arm, and falling instantly into the same attitude in which he read the sermon,-what is Whitsontide, Jonathan, (for that was the coachman's name) or Shrovetide, or any 
[Page 45]
tide or time past, to this? Are we not here now, continued the corporal, (striking the end of his stick perpendicularly upon the floor, so as to give an idea of health and stability)-- (dropping his hat upon the ground) gone! in a moment! -'Twas infinitely striking! Susannah burst into a flood of tears. -We are not stocks and stones. - Jonathan, Obadiah, the cook-maid, all melted. -The foolish fat scullion herself, who was scouring a fish-kettle upon her knees, was rous'd with it. -The whole kitchen crouded about the corporal. 
Now as I perceive plainly, that the preservation of our constitution in church and state,-and possibly the preservation of the whole world-or what is the same thing, the distribution and balance of its property and power, may in time to come depend greatly upon the right understanding of this stroke of the corporal's 
[Page 46]
eloquence-I do demand your attention -your worships and reverences, for any ten pages together, take them where you will in any other part of the work, shall sleep for it at your ease. 
I said, "" -'tis very well. I should have added, nor are we angels, I wish we were,-but men cloathed with bodies, and governed by our imaginations;-and what a junketting piece of work of it there is, betwixt these and our seven senses, especially some of them, for my own part, I own it, I am ashamed to confess. Let it suffice to affirm, that of all the senses, the eye (for I absolutely deny the touch, though most of your Barbati, I know, are for it) has the quickest commerce with the soul,-gives a smarter stroke, and leaves something more inexpressible upon the fancy, than words can either convey-or sometimes get rid of. 

[Page 47]
-I've gone a little about-no matter, 'tis for health-let us only carry it back in our mind to the mortality of Trim's hat. -"" -There was nothing in the sentence-'twas one of your self-evident truths we have the advantage of hearing every day; and if Trim had not trusted more to his hat than his head- he had made nothing at all of it. 
-""- continued the corporal, "" -(dropping his hat plumb upon the ground-and pausing, before he pronounced the word)-"" The descent of the hat was as if a heavy lump of clay had been kneaded into the crown of it-Nothing could have expressed the sentiment of mortality, of which it was the type and forerunner, like it,-his hand seemed to vanish from under it,-it fell dead,-the corporal's eye fix'd upon it, as upon a 
[Page 48]
corps,-and Susannah burst into a flood of tears. 
Now-Ten thousand, and ten thousand times ten thousand (for matter and motion are infinite) are the ways by which a hat may be dropped upon the ground, without any effect. -Had he flung it, or thrown it, or cast it, or skimmed it, or squirted, or let it slip or fall in any possible direction under heaven, -or in the best direction that could be given to it,-had he dropped it like a goose-like a puppy-like an ass-or in doing it, or even after he had done, had he looked like a fool-like a ninny- like a nicompoop-it had fail'd, and the effect upon the heart had been lost. 
Ye who govern this mighty world and its mighty concerns with the engines of eloquence,-who heat it, and cool it, and melt it, and mollify it,-and then harden it again to your purpose- 

[Page 49]
Ye who wind and turn the passions with this great windlass,-and, having done it, lead the owners of them, whither ye think meet- 
Ye, lastly, who drive--and why not, Ye also who are driven, like turkeys to market, with a stick and a red clout-meditate-meditate, I beseech you, upon Trim's hat. 
CHAP. VIII. 
Stay-I have a small account to settle with the reader, before Trim can go on with his harangue. -It shall be done in two minutes. 
Amongst many other book-debts, all of which I shall discharge in due time,- I own myself a debtor to the world for two items,-a chapter upon chambermaids and button-holes, which, in the former part of my work, I promised and 
[Page 50]
fully intended to pay off this year: but some of your worships and reverences telling me, that the two subjects, especially so connected together, might endanger the morals of the world,-I pray the chapter upon chamber-maids and button-holes may be forgiven me,-and that they will accept of the last chapter in lieu of it; which is nothing, an't please your reverences, but a chapter of chambermaids, green-gowns, and old hats. 
Trim took his off the ground,-put it upon his head,-and then went on with his oration upon death, in manner and form following. 
CHAP. IX. 
-To us, Jonathan, who know not what want or care is-who live here in the service of two of the best of masters -(bating in my own case his majesty King William the Third, whom I had 
[Page 51]
the honour to serve both in Ireland and Flanders)-I own it, that from Whitsontide to within three weeks of Christmas,- 'tis not long-'tis like nothing;-but to those, Jonathan, who knew what death is, and what havock and destruction he can make, before a man can well wheel about-'tis like a whole age. -O Jonathan! 'twould make a good-natured man's heart bleed, to consider, continued the corporal, (standing perpendicularly) how low many a brave and upright fellow has been laid since that time! -And trust me, Susy, added the corporal, turning to Susannah, whose eyes were swiming in water,-before that time comes round again,-many a bright eye will be dim. -Susannah placed it to the right side of the page-she wept-but she court'sied too. -Are we not, continued Trim, looking still at Susannah-are we not like a flower of the field-a tear of pride stole in betwixt every two tears of 
[Page 52]
humiliation-else no tongue could have described Susannah's affliction-is not all flesh grass? -'Tis clay-'tis dirt. -They all looked directly at the scullion,-the scullion had just been scouring a fish-kettle. -It was not fair.- 
-What is the finest face that ever man looked at! -I could hear Trim talk so for ever, cried Susannah,-what is it! (Susannah laid her hand upon Trim's shoulder) but corruption? -Susannah took it off. 
-Now I love you for this-and 'tis this delicious mixture within you which makes you dear creatures what you are- and he who hates you for it-all I can say of the matter, is-That he has either a pumkin for his head-or a pippin for his heart,-and whenever he is dissected 'twill be found so. 

[Page 53]

CHAP. X. 
Whether Susannah, by taking her hand too suddenly from off the corporal's shoulder, (by the whisking about of her passions)-broke a little the chain of his reflections- 
Or whether the corporal began to be suspicious, he had got into the doctor's quarters, and was talking more like the chaplain than himself- 
Or whether - - - - - - - Or whether-for in all such cases a man of invention and parts may with pleasure fill a couple of pages with suppositions -which of all these was the cause, let the curious physiologist, or the curious any body determine-'tis certain, at least, the corporal went on thus with his harangue. 

[Page 54]
For my own part, I declare it, that out of doors, I value not death at all:-not this .. added the corporal, snapping his fingers,-but with an air which no one but the corporal could have given to the sentiment-In battle, I value death not this . . . and let him not take me cowardly, like poor Joe Gibbons, in scouring his gun. -What is he? A pull of a trigger -a push of a bayonet an inch this way or that-makes the difference- Look along the line-to the right-see! Jack's down! well-tis worth a regiment of horse to him. -No-'tis Dick. Then Jack's no worse. -Never mind which,-we pass on,-in hot pursuit the wound itself which brings him is not felt, -the best way is to stand up to him,- the man who flies, is in ten times more danger than the man who marches up into his jaws. -I've look'd him, added the corporal, an hundred times in the face,-and know what he is. -He's nothing, 
[Page 55]
Obadiah, at all in the field. -But he's very frightful in a house, quoth Obadiah. -I never mind it myself, said Jonathan, upon a coach-box. -It must, in my opinion, be most natural in bed, replied Susannah. -And could I escape him by creeping into the worst calf's skin that ever was made into a knapsack, I would do it there-said Trim-but that is nature. 
-Nature is nature, said Jonathan- And that is the reason, cried Susannah, I so much pity my mistress. -She will never get the better of it. -Now I pity the captain the most of any one in the family, answered Trim. -Madam will get ease of heart in weeping,-and the Squire in talking about it,-but my poor master will keep it all in silence to himself. -I shall hear him sigh in his bed for a whole month together, as he did for lieutenant Le Fever. An' please your honour, do not sigh so piteously, I would say to him 
[Page 56]
as I laid besides him. I cannot help it, Trim, my master would say,-'tis so melancholy an accident-I cannot get it off my heart. -Your honour fears not death yourself. -I hope, Trim, I fear nothing, he would say, but the doing a wrong thing. -Well, he would add, whatever betides, I will take care of Le Fever's boy. -And with that, like a quieting draught, his honour would fall asleep. 
I like to hear Trim's stories about the captain, said Susannah. -He is a kindly-hearted gentleman, said Obadiah, as ever lived. -Aye,-and as brave a one too, said the corporal, as ever stept before a platoon. -There never was a better officer in the king's army,-or a better man in God's world; for he would march up to the mouth of a cannon, though he saw the lighted match at the very touch-hole, -and yet, for all that, he has a heart as 
[Page 57]
soft as a child for other people. -He would not hurt a chicken. -I would sooner, quoth Jonathan, drive such a gentleman for seven pounds a year-than some for eight. -Thank thee, Jonathan! for thy twenty shillings,-as much, Jonathan, said the corporal, shaking him by the hand, as if thou hadst put the money into my own pocket. -I would serve him to the day of my death out of love. He is a friend and a brother to me- and could I be sure my poor brother Tom was dead,-continued the corporal, taking out his handkerchief,-was I worth ten thousand pounds, I would leave every shilling of it to the captain. -Trim could not refrain from tears at this testamentary proof he gave of his affection to his master. -The whole kitchen was affected. -Do tell us this story of the poor lieutenant, said Susannah. -With all my heart, answered the corporal. 

[Page 58]
Susannah, the cook, Jonathan, Obadiah, and corporal Trim, formed a circle about the fire; and as soon as the scullion had shut the kitchen door,-the corporal begun. 
CHAP. XI. 
I am a Turk if I had not as much forgot my mother, as if Nature had plaistered me up, and set me down naked upon the banks of the river Nile, without one. -Your most obedient servant, Madam-I've cost you a great deal of trouble,-I wish it may answer; -but you have left a crack in my back, -and here's a great piece fallen off here before,-and what must I do with this foot? -I shall never reach England with it. 

[Page 59]
For my own part I never wonder at any thing;-and so often has my judgment deceived me in my life, that I always suspect it, right or wrong,-at least I am seldom hot upon cold subjects. For all this, I reverence truth as much as any body; and when it has slipped us, if a man will but take me by the hand, and go quietly and search for it, as for a thing we have both lost, and can neither of us do well without,-I'll go to the world's end with him: -But I hate disputes,-and therefore (bating religious points, or such as touch society) I would almost subscribe to any thing which does not choak me in the first passage, rather than be drawn into one -But I cannot bear suffocation,- and bad smells worst of all. -For which reasons, I resolved from the beginning, 
[Page 60]
That if ever the army of martyrs was to be augmented,-or a new one raised,-I would have no hand in it, one way or t'other. 
CHAP. XII. 
-But to return to my mother. 
My uncle Toby's opinion, Madam, ""-or rather the last word of that opinion,-(for it was all my mother heard of it) caught hold of her by the weak part of the whole sex: -You shall not mistake me,-I mean her curiosity,-she instantly concluded herself the subject of the conversation, and with that prepossession upon her fancy, you will readily conceive every 
[Page 61]
word my father said, was accommodated either to herself, or her family concerns. 
-Pray, Madam, in what street does the lady live, who would not have done the same? 
From the strange mode of Cornelius's death, my father had made a transition to that of Socrates, and was giving my uncle Toby an abstract of his pleading before his judges;-'twas irresistable: -not the oration of Socrates,-but my father's temptation to it. -He had wrote the * 18 Life of Socrates himself the year before he left off trade, which, I 
[Page 62]
fear, was the means of hastening him out of it; so that no one was able to set out with so full a sail, and in so swelling a tide of heroic loftiness upon the occasion, as my father was. Not a period in Socrates's oration, which closed with a shorter word than transmigration, or annihilation,-or a worse thought in the middle of it than to be-or not to be, -the entering upon a new and untried state of things,-or, upon a long, a profound and peaceful sleep, without dreams, without disturbance;-That we and our children were born to die,-but neither of us born to be slaves. -No- there I mistake; that was part of Eleazer's oration, as recorded by Josephus (de Bell. Judaic.)-Eleazer owns he had it from the philosophers of India; in all likelihood Alexander the Great, in his irruption into India, after he had 
[Page 63]
over-run Persia, amongst the many things he stole,-stole that sentiment also; by which means it was carried, if not all the way by himself, (for we all know he died at Babylon) at least by some of his maroders, into Greece,-from Greece it got to Rome,-from Rome to France,- and from France to England: -So things come round.- 
By land carriage, I can conceive no other way.- 
By water the sentiment might easily have come down the Ganges into the Sinus Gangeticus, or Bay of Bengal, and so into the Indian Sea; and following the course of trade, (the way from India by the Cape of Good Hope being then unknown) might be carried with other drugs and spices up the Red Sea to Joddah, 
[Page 64]
the port of Mekka, or else to Tor or Sues, towns at the bottom of the gulf; and from thence by karrawans to Coptos, but three days journey distant, so down the Nile directly to Alexandria, where the SENTIMENT would be landed at the very foot of the great stair case of the Alexandrian library,-and from that store-house it would be fetched. - Bless me! what a trade was driven by the learned in those days! 
CHAP. XIII. 
-Now my father had a way a little like that of Job's (in case there ever was such a man- if not, there's an end of the matter.- 
Though, by the bye, because your learned men find some difficulty in fixing 
[Page 65]
the precise æra in which so great a man lived;-whether, for instance, before or after the patriarchs, &c.-to vote, therefore, that he never lived at all, is a little cruel,-'tis not doing as they would be done by-happen that as it may-My father, I say, had a way, when things went extremely wrong with him, especially upon the first sally of his impatience,-of wondering why he was begot,-wishing himself dead;- sometimes worse: -And when the provocation ran high, and grief touched his lips with more than ordinary powers, -Sir, you scarce could have distinguished him from Socrates himself. - Every word would breathe the sentiments of a soul disdaining life, and careless about all its issues; for which reason, though my mother was a woman of no deep reading, yet the abstract 
[Page 66]
of Socrates's oration, which my father was giving my uncle Toby, was not altogether new to her. -She listened to it with composed intelligence, and would have done so to the end of the chapter, had not my father plunged (which he had no occasion to have done) into that part of the pleading where the great philosopher reckons up his connections, his alliances, and children; but renounces a security to be so won by working upon the passions of his judges. -""-says Socrates. 
-Then, cried my mother, opening the door,-you have one more, Mr. Shandy, than I know of. 
By heaven! I have one less,-said my father, getting up and walking out of the room. 

[Page 67]

CHAP. XIV. 
-They are Socrates's children, said my uncle Toby. He has been dead a hundred years ago, replied my mother. 
My uncle Toby was no chronologer- so not caring to advance a step but upon safe ground, he laid down his pipe deliberately upon the table, and rising up, and taking my mother most kindly by the hand, without saying another word, either good or bad, to her, he led her out after my father, that he might finish the ecclaircissment himself. 
CHAP. XV. 
Had this volume been a farce, which, unless every one's life and opinions are to be looked upon as a farce as well as mine, I see no reason to suppose -the last chapter, Sir, had finished 
[Page 68]
the first act of it, and then this chapter must have set off thus. 
Ptr..r..r..ing-twing-twang-prut -trut-'tis a cursed bad fiddle. -Do you know whether my fiddle's in tune or no? trut..prut. -They should be fifths-'Tis wickedly strung-tr... a.e.i.o.u.-twang. -The bridge is a mile too high, and the sound-post absolutely down,-else-trut..prut-hark! 'tis not so bad a tone. -Diddle diddle, diddle diddle, diddle diddle, dum. There is nothing in playing before good judges,- but there's a man there-no-not him with the bundle under his arm-the grave man in black. -S'death! not the gentleman with the sword on. -Sir, I had rather play a Caprichio to Calliope herself, than draw my bow across my fiddle before that very man; and yet, I'll stake my Cremona to a Jew's trump, which is the greatest musical odds that 
[Page 69]
ever were laid, that I will this moment stop three hundred and fifty leagues out of tune upon my fiddle, without punishing one single nerve that belongs to him. -Twaddle diddle, tweddle diddle,- twiddle diddle,-twoddle diddle,- twuddle diddle,-prut-trut-krish- krash-krush. -I've undone you, Sir, -but you see he is no worse,-and was Apollo to take his fiddle after me, he can make him no better. 
Diddle diddle, diddle diddle, diddle diddle-hum-dum-drum. 
-Your worships and your reverences love musick-and God has made you all with good ears-and some of you play delightfully yourselves-trut-prut,- prut-trut. 
O! there is --- whom I could sit and hear whole days,-whose talents lie in making what he fiddles to be felt,-who inspires 
[Page 70]
me with his joys and hopes, and puts the most hidden springs of my heart into motion. -If you would borrow five guineas of me, Sir,-which is generally ten guineas more than I have to spare- or you, Messrs. Apothecary and Taylor, want your bills paying,-that's your time. 
CHAP. XVI. 
The first thing which entered my father's head, after affairs were a little settled in the family, and Susannah had got possession of my mother's green sattin night-gown,-was to sit down coolly, after the example of Xenophon, and write a Tristra-pædia, or system of education for me; collecting first for that purpose his own scattered thoughts, counsels, and notions; and binding them together, so as to form an INSTITUTE for the government of my childhood and adolescence. 
[Page 71]
I was my father's last stake- he had lost my brother Bobby entirely,- he had lost, by his own computation, full three fourths of me-that is, he had been unfortunate in his three first great casts for me-my geniture, nose, and name,-there was but this one left; and accordingly my father gave himself up to it with as much devotion as ever my uncle Toby had done to his doctrine of projectils. -The difference between them was, that my uncle Toby drew his whole knowledge of projectils from Nicholas Tartaglia-My father spun his, every thread of it, out of his own brain,-or reeled and cross-twisted what all other spinners and spinsters had spun before him, that 'twas pretty near the same torture to him. 
In about three years, or something more, my father had got advanced almost into the middle of his work. -Like all other writers, he met with disappointments. 
[Page 72]
-He imagined he should be able to bring whatever he had to say, into so small compass, that when it was finished and bound, it might be rolled up in my mother's hussive. -Matter grows under our hands. -Let no man say,-"" 
My father gave himself up to it, however, with the most painful diligence, proceeding step by step in every line, with the same kind of caution and circumspection (though I cannot say upon quite so religious a principle) as was used by John de la Casse, the lord archbishop of Benevento, in compassing his Galatea; in which his Grace of Benevento spent near forty years of his life; and when the thing came out, it was not of above half the size or the thickness of a Rider's Almanack. -How the holy man managed the affair, unless he spent the greatest part of hi time in combing his whiskers, 
[Page 73]
or playing at primero with his chaplain, -would pose any mortal not let into the true secret;-and therefore 'tis worth explaining to the world, was it only for the encouragement of those few in it, who write not so much to be fed-as to be famous. 
I own had John de la Casse, the archbishop of Benevento, for whose memory (notwithstanding his Galatea) I retain the highest veneration,-had he been, Sir, a slender clerk,-of dull wit-slow parts-costive head, and so forth,-he and his Galatea might have jogged on together to the age of Methusalah for me,-the phænomenon had not been worth a parenthesis.- 
But the reverse of this was the truth: John de la Casse was a genius of fine parts and fertile fancy; and yet with all these great advantages of nature, which should 
[Page 74]
have pricked him forwards with his Galatea, he lay under an impuissance at the same time of advancing above a line and an half in the compass of a whole summer's day: this disability in his Grace arose from an opinion he was afflicted with,-which opinion was this,-viz. that whenever a Christian was writing a book (not for his private amusement, but) where his intent and purpose was bona fide, to print and publish it to the world, his first thoughts were always the temptations of the evil one. -This was the state of ordinary writers: but when a personage of venerable character and high station, either in church or state, once turned author,-he maintained that from the very moment he took pen in hand-all the devils in hell broke out of their holes to cajole him. -'Twas Term-time with them,-every thought, first and last, was captious;-how specious 
[Page 75]
and good soever,-'twas all one; -in whatever form or colour it presented itself to the imagination,-'twas still a stroke of one or other of 'em levelled at him, and was to be fenced off. -So that the life of a writer, whatever he might fancy to the contrary, was not so much a state of composition, as a state of warfare; and his probation in it, precisely that of any other man militant upon earth,-both depending alike, not half so much upon the degrees of his WIT- as his RESISTANCE. 
My father was hugely pleased with this theory of John de la Casse, archbishop of Benevento; and (had it not cramped him a little in his creed) I believe would have given ten of the best acres in the Shandy estate, to have been the broacher of it. -How far my father actually believed in the devil, will be seen, when I come to speak of my father's 
[Page 76]
religious notions, in the progress of this work: 'tis enough to say here, as he could not have the honour of it, in the literal sense of the doctrine-he took up with the allegory of it;-and would often say, especially when his pen was a little retrograde, there was as much good meaning, truth, and knowledge, couched under the veil of John de la Casse's parabolical representation,-as was to be found in any one poetic fiction, or mystic record of antiquity. -Prejudice of education, he would say, is the devil,-and the multitudes of them which we suck in with our mother's milk-are the devil and all. -We are haunted with them, brother Toby, in all our lucubrations and researches; and was a man fool enough to submit tamely to what they obtruded upon him,-what would his book be? Nothing,-he would add, throwing his pen away with a vengeance, -nothing but a farrago of the clack of 
[Page 77]
nurses, and of the nonsense of the old women (of both sexes) throughout the kingdom. 
This is the best account I am determined to give of the slow progress my father made in his Tristra-pædia; at which (as I said) he was three years and something more, indefatigably at work, and at last, had scarce compleated, by his own reckoning, one half of his undertaking: the misfortune was, that I was all that time totally neglected and abandoned to my mother; and what was almost as bad, by the very delay, the first part of the work, upon which my father had spent the most of his pains, was rendered entirely useless,-every day a page or two became of no consequence.- 
-Certainly it was ordained as a scourge upon the pride of human wisdom, 
[Page 78]
That the wisest of us all, should thus outwit ourselves, and eternally forego our purposes in the intemperate act of pursuing them. 
In short, my father was so long in all his acts of resistance,-or in other words, -he advanced so very slow with his work, and I began to live and get forwards at such a rate, that if an event had not happened,-which, when we get to it, if it can be told with decency, shall not be concealed a moment from the reader-I verily believe, I had put by my father, and left him drawing a sun-dial, for no better purpose than to be buried under ground. 

[Page 79]

CHAP. XVII. 
-'Twas nothing,-I did not lose two drops of blood by it-'twas not worth calling in a surgeon, had he lived next door to us- thousands suffer by choice, what I did by accident. --Doctor Slop made ten times more of it, than there was occasion: -some men rise, by the art of hanging great weights upon small wires, -and I am this day (August the 10th, 1761) paying part of the price of this man's reputation. -O 'twould provoke a stone, to see how things are carried on in this world! -The chambermaid had left no ******* *** under the bed: -Cannot you contrive, master, quoth Susannah, lifting up the sash with one hand, as she spoke, and helping me up into the window seat with the other,-cannot you manage, my dear, 
[Page 80]
for a single time to **** *** ** *** ******? 
I was five years old. -Susannah did not consider that nothing was well hung in our family,-so slap came the sash down like lightening upon us;-Nothing is left,-cried Susannah,-nothing is left -for me, but to run my country.- 
My uncle Toby's house was a much kinder sanctuary; and so Susannah fled to it. 
CHAP. XVIII. 
When Susannah told the corporal the misadventure of the sash, with all the circumstances which attended the murder of me,-(as she called it) -the blood forsook his cheeks;-all accessaries in murder, being principals,- Trim's conscience told him he was as much to blame as Susannah,-and if the 
[Page 81]
doctrine had been true, my uncle Toby had as much of the blood-shed to answer for to heaven, as either of 'em;- so that neither reason or instinct, separate or together, could possibly have guided Susannah's steps to so proper an asylum. It is in vain to leave this to the Reader's imagination:-to form any kind of hypothesis that will render these propositions feasible, he must cudgel his brains sore,-and to do it without,- he must have such brains as no reader ever had before him. -Why should I put them either to tryal or to torture? 'Tis my own affair: I'll explain it myself. 
CHAP. XIX. 
'Tis a pity, Trim, said my uncle Toby, resting with his hand upon the corporal's shoulder, as they both stood surveying their works,-that we 
[Page 82]
have not a couple of field pieces to mount in the gorge of that new redoubt;- 'twould secure the lines all along there, and make the attack on that side quite complete:-get me a couple cast, Trim. 
Your honour shall have them, replied Trim, before to-morrow morning. 
It was the joy of Trim's heart,-nor was his fertile head ever at a loss for expedients in doing it, to supply my uncle Toby in his campaigns, with whatever his fancy called for; had it been his last crown, he would have sate down and hammered it into a paderero to have prevented a single wish in his Master. The corporal had already,-what with cutting off the ends of my uncle Toby's spouts-hacking and chiseling up the sides of his leaden gutters,-melting down his pewter shaving bason,-and 
[Page 83]
going at last, like Lewis the fourteenth, on to the top of the church, for spare ends, &c.-he had that very campaign brought no less than eight new battering cannons, besides three demi-culverins into the field; my uncle Toby's demand for two more pieces for the redoubt, had set the corporal at work again; and no better resource offering, he had taken the two leaden weights from the nursery window: and as the sash pullies, when the lead was gone, were of no kind of use, he had taken them away also, to make a couple of wheels for one of their carriages. 
He had dismantled every sash window in my uncle Toby's house long before, in the very same way,-though not always in the same order; for sometimes the pullies had been wanted, and not the lead,-so then he began with the pullies, -and the pullies being picked out, then 
[Page 84]
the lead became useless,-and so the lead went to pot too. 
-A great MORAL might be picked handsomely out of this, but I have not time-'tis enough to say, wherever the demolition began, 'twas equally fatal to the sash window. 
CHAP. XX. 
The corporal had not taken his measures so badly in this stroke of artilleryship, but that he might have kept the matter entirely to himself, and left Susannah to have sustained the whole weight of the attack, as she could;- true courage is not content with coming off so. -The corporal, whether as general or comptroller of the train,-'twas no matter,-had done that, without which, as he imagined, the misfortune could never have happened,-at least in 
[Page 85]
Susannah's hands;-How would your honours have behaved? -He determined at once, not to take shelter behind Susannah,-but to give it; and with this resolution upon his mind, he marched upright into the parlour, to lay the whole manœuvre before my uncle Toby. 
My uncle Toby had just then been giving Yorick an account of the Battle of Steenkirk, and of the strange conduct of count Solmes in ordering the foot to halt, and the horse to march where it could not act; which was directly contrary to the king's commands, and proved the loss of the day. 
There are incidents in some families so pat to the purpose of what is going to follow,-they are scarce exceeded by the invention of a dramatic writer;-I mean of ancient days.- 

[Page 86]
Trim, by the help of his forefinger, laid flat upon the table, and the edge of his hand striking a-cross it at right angles, made a shift to tell his story so, that priests and virgins might have listened to it;-and the story being told, -the dialogue went on as follows. 
CHAP. XXI. 
-I would be picquetted to death, cried the corporal, as he concluded Susannah's story before I would suffer the woman to come to any harm,-'twas my fault, an please your honour,-not hers. 
Corporal Trim, replied my uncle Toby, putting on his hat which lay upon the table,-if any thing can be said to be a fault, when the service absolutely requires it should be done,-'tis I certainly who deserve the blame,-you obeyed your orders. 

[Page 87]
Had count Solmes, Trim, done the same at the battle of Steenkirk, said Yorick, drolling a little upon the corporal, who had been run over by a dragoon in the retreat,-he had saved thee;- Saved! cried Trim, interrupting Yorick, and finishing the sentence for him after his own fashion,-he had saved five battalions, an please your reverence, every soul of them:-there was Cutts's -continued the corporal, clapping the forefinger of his right hand upon the thumb of his left, and counting round his hand,-there was Cutts's,-Mackay's,-Augus's,-Graham's-and Leven's, all cut to pieces;-and so had the English life guards too, had it not been for some regiments upon the right, who marched up boldly to their relief, and received the enemy's fire in their faces, before any one of their own platoons discharged a musket,-they'll go to heaven for it,-added Trim. - 
[Page 88]
Trim is right, said my uncle Toby, nodding to Yorick,-he's perfectly right. What signified his marching the horse, continued the corporal, where the ground was so strait, and the French had such a nation of hedges, and copses, and ditches, and fell'd trees laid this way and that to cover them; (as they always have.) - Count Solmes should have sent us,- we would have fired muzzle to muzzle with them for their lives. --There was nothing to be done for the horse:-he had his foot shot off however for his pains, continued the corporal, the very next campaign at Landen. -Poor Trim got his wound there, quoth my uncle Toby. -'Twas owing, an please your honour, entirely to count Solmes,- had we drub'd them soundly at Steenkirk, they would not have fought us at Landen. -Possibly not,-Trim, said my uncle Toby;-though if they have the advantage of a wood, or you give 
[Page 89]
them a moment's time to intrench themselves, they are a nation which will pop and pop for ever at you. -There is no way but to march coolly up to them, -receive their fire, and fall in upon them, pell-mell-Ding dong, added Trim. -Horse and foot, said my uncle Toby. -Helter skelter, said Trim. - Right and left, cried my uncle Toby. - Blood an' ounds, shouted the corporal; -the battle raged,-Yorick drew his chair a little to one side for safety, and after a moment's pause, my uncle Toby sinking his voice a note,-resumed the discourse as follows. 
CHAP. XXII. 
King William, said my uncle Toby, addressing himself to Yorick, was so terribly provoked at count Solmes for disobeying his orders, that he would not suffer him to come into his presence 
[Page 90]
for many months after. -I fear, answered Yorick, the squire will be as much provoked at the corporal, as the King at the count. -But 'twould be singularly hard in this case, continued he, if corporal Trim, who has behaved so diametrically opposite to count Solmes, should have the fate to be rewarded with the same disgrace;-too oft in this world, do things take that train. - I would spring a mine,rising up,-and blow up my fortifications, and my house with them, and we would perish under their ruins, ere I would stand by and see it. - Trim directed a slight,-but a grateful bow towards his master,-and so the chapter ends. 

[Page 91]

CHAP. XXIII. 
-Then, Yorick, replied my uncle Toby, you and I will lead the way abreast, -and do you, corporal, follow a few paces behind us. -And Susannah, an please your honour, said Trim, shall be put in the rear. -'Twas an excellent disposition,-and in this order, without either drums beating, or colours flying, they marched slowly from my uncle Toby's house to Shandy hall. 
-I wish, said Trim, as they entered the door,-instead of the sash-weights, I had cut off the church-spout, as I once thought to have done. -You have cut off spouts enow, replied Yorick.- 
CHAP. XXIV. 
As many pictures as have been given of my father, how like him soever in different airs and attitudes,-not one, 
[Page 92]
or all of them, can ever help the reader to any kind of preconception of how my father would think, speak, or act, upon any untried occasion or occurrence of life. -There was that infinitude of oddities in him, and of chances along with it, by which handle he would take a thing,-it baffled, Sir, all calculations. -The truth was, his road lay so very far on one side, from that wherein most men travelled,-that every object before him presented a face and section of itself to his eye, altogether different from the plan and elevation of it seen by the rest of mankind. -In other words, 'twas a different object,-and in course was differently considered: 
This is the true reason, that my dear Jenny and I, as well as all the world besides us, have such eternal squabbles about nothing. -She looks at her outside, -I, at her in. -How is it possible we should agree about her value? 

[Page 93]

CHAP. XXV. 
'Tis a point settled,-and I mention it for the comfort of † 19 Confucius, who is apt to get entangled in telling a plain story-that provided he keeps along the line of his story,-he may go backwards and forwards as he will,-'tis still held to be no digression. 
This being premised, I take the benefit of the act of going backwards myself. 
CHAP. XXVI. 
Fifty thousand pannier loads of devils-(not of the Archbishop of Benevento's,-I mean of Rabelais's devils) with their tails chopped off by their rumps, could not have made so diabolical 
[Page 94]
a scream of it, as I did-when the accident befel me: it summoned up my mother instantly into the nursery,-so that Susannah had but just time to make her escape down the back stairs, as my mother came up the fore. 
Now, though I was old enough to have told the story myself,-and young enough, I hope, to have done it without malignity; yet Susannah, in passing by the kitchen, for fear of accidents, had left it in short-hand with the cook- the cook had told it with a commentary to Jonathan, and Jonathan to Obadiah; so that by the time my father had rung the bell half a dozen times, to know what was the matter above,-was Obadiah enabled to give him a particular account of it, just as it had happened. - I thought as much, said my father, tucking up his night-gown;-and so walked up stairs. 

[Page 95]
One would imagine from this- (though for my own part I somewhat question it)-that my father before that time, had actually wrote that remarkable chapter in the Tristrapædia, which to me is the most original and entertaining one in the whole book;-and that is the chapter upon sash-windows, with a bitter Philippick at the end of it, upon the forgetfulness of chamber-maids. - I have but two reasons for thinking otherwise. 
First, Had the matter been taken into consideration, before the event happened, my father certainly would have nailed up the sash-window for good an' all;- which, considering with what difficulty he composed books,-he might have done with ten times less trouble, than he could have wrote the chapter: this argument I foresee holds good against his writing the chapter, even after the event; 
[Page 96]
but 'tis obviated under the second reason, which I have the honour to offer to the world in support of my opinion, that my father did not write the chapter upon sash-windows and chamber pots, at the time supposed,-and it is this. 
-That, in order to render the Tristrapædia complete,-I wrote the chapter myself. 
CHAP. XXVII. 
My father put on his spectacles- looked,-took them off,-put them into the case-all in less than a statutable minute; and without opening his lips, turned about, and walked precipitately down stairs: my mother imagined he had stepped down for lint and basilicon; but seeing him return with a couple of folios under his arm, and Obadiah following him with a large reading desk, 
[Page 97]
she took it for granted 'twas an herbal, and so drew him a chair to the bed side, that he might consult upon the case at his ease. 
-If it be but right done,-said my father, turning to the Section-de sede vel subjecto circumcisionis,-for he had brought up Spencer de Legibus Hebræorum Ritualibus-and Maimonides, in order to confront and examine us altogether.- 
-If it be but right done, quoth he: -Only tell us, cried my mother, interrupting him, what herbs. -For that, replied my father, you must send for Dr. Slop. 
My mother went down, and my father went on, reading the section as follows. 
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
[Page 98]
* * *-Very well,-said my father, * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *-nay, if it has that convenience -and so without stopping a moment to settle it first in his mind, whether the Jews had it from the Egyptians, or the Egyptians from the Jews,-he rose up, and rubbing his forehead two or three times across with the palm of his hand, in the manner we rub out the footsteps of care, when evil has trod lighter upon us than we foreboded,-he shut the book, and walked down stairs. -Nay,mentioning the name of a different great nation upon every step as he set his foot upon it-if the Egyptians,-the Syrians, -the Phoenicians,-the Arabians, -the Capadocians,-if the Colchi, and Troglodytes did it- if Solon and Pythagoras submitted, -what is Tristram? -Who am I, that I should fret or fume one moment about the matter? 

[Page 99]

CHAP. XXVIII. 
Dear Yorick, said my father smiling, (for Yorick had broke his rank with my uncle Toby in coming through the narrow entry, and so had stept first into the parlour)-this Tristram of ours, I find, comes very hardly by all his religious rites. -Never was the son of Jew, Christian, Turk, or Infidel initiated into them in so oblique and slovenly a manner. -But he is no worse, I trust, said Yorick. -There has been certainly, continued my father, the duce and all to do in some part or other of the ecliptic, when this offspring of mine was formed. -That, you are a better judge of than I, replied Yorick. -Astrologers, quoth my father, know better than us both:- the trine and sextil aspects have jumped awry,-or the opposite of their ascendents have not hit it, as they should,- or the lords of the genitures (as they call 
[Page 100]
them) have been at bo-peep,-or something has been wrong above, or below with us. 
'Tis possible, answered Yorick,-But is the child,the worse? -The Troglodytes say not, replied my father. -And your theologists, Yorick, tell us-Theologically? said Yorick, -or speaking after the manner of * 20 apothecaries? -† 21 statesmen?-or ‡ 22 washer-women? 
-I'm not sure, replied my father, -but they tell us, brother Toby, he's the better for it. -Provided, said Yorick, you travel him into Egypt. -Of that, answered my father, he will have 
[Page 101]
the advantage, when he sees the Pyramids.- 
Now every word of this, quoth my uncle Toby, is Arabick to me. -I wish, said Yorick, 'twas so, to half the world. 
-* 23 Ilus, continued my father, circumcised his whole army one morning. -Not without a court martial? cried my uncle Toby. -Though the learned, continued he, taking no notice of my uncle Toby's remark, but turning to Yorick, -are greatly divided still who Ilus was;-some say Saturn;-some the supreme being;-others, no more than a brigadier general under Pharoah-neco. -Let him be who he will, said my uncle Toby, I know not by what article of war he could justify it. 

[Page 102]
The controvertists, answered my father, assign two and twenty different reasons for it:-others, indeed, who have drawn their pens on the opposite side of the question, have shewn the world the futility of the greatest part of them. - But then again, our best polemic divines -I wish there was not a polemic divine, said Yorick, in the kingdom;- one ounce of practical divinity-is worth a painted ship load of all their reverences have imported these fifty years-Pray, Mr. Yorick, quoth my uncle Toby,-do tell me what a polemic divine is. - The best description, captain Shandy, I have ever read, is of a couple of 'em, replied Yorick, in the account of the battle fought single hands betwixt Gymnast and captain Tripet; which I have in my pocket. -I beg I may hear it, quoth my uncle Toby earnestly. -You shall, said Yorick. -And as the corporal is waiting for me at the door,-and I 
[Page 103]
know the description of a battle, will do the poor fellow more good than his supper,-I beg, brother, you'll give him leave to come in. -With all my soul, said my father. -Trim came in, erect and happy as an emperour; and having shut the door, Yorick took a book from his right-hand coat pocket, and read, or pretended to read, as follows. 
CHAP. XXIX. 
-"" 
(This can't be fighting, said my uncle Toby. -The corporal shook his head at it. -Have patience, said Yorick.) 
"" - Good God! cried Trim, losing all patience, -one home thrust of a bayonet is worth it all. -I think so too, replied Yorick.- 
-I am of a contrary opinion, quoth my father. 
CHAP. XXX. 
-No,-I think I have advanced nothing, replied my father, making answer to a question which Yorick had taken the liberty to put to him,-I have 
[Page 107]
advanced nothing in the Tristrapædia, but what is as clear as any one proposition in Euclid. -Reach me, Trim, that book from off the scrutoir:-it has oft times been in my mind, continued my father, to have read it over both to you, Yorick, and to my brother Toby, and I think it a little unfriendly in myself, in not having done it long ago:-shall we have a short chapter or two now,- and a chapter or two hereafter, as occasions serve; and so on, till we get through the whole? My uncle Toby and Yorick made the obeisance which was proper; and the corporal, though he was not included in the compliment, laid his hand upon his breast, and made his bow at the same time. -The company smiled. Trim, quoth my father, has paid the full price for staying out the entertainment. -He did not seem to relish the play, replied Yorick,-'Twas a Tom-fool-battle, an' please your reverence, of 
[Page 108]
captain Trippet's and that other officer, making so many summersets, as they advanced; -the French come on capering now and then in that way,-but not quiet so much. 
My uncle Toby never felt the consciousness of his existence with more complacency than what the corporal's, and his own reflections, made him do at that moment;-he lighted his pipe,-- Yorick drew his chair closer to the table, -Trim snuff'd the candle,-my father stir'd up the fire,-took up the book,- cough'd twice, and begun. 
CHAP. XXXI. 
The first thirty pages, said my father, turning over the leaves,- are a little dry; and as they are not closely connected with the subject,-for the present we'll pass them by: 'tis a prefatory 
[Page 109]
introduction, continued my father, or an introductory preface (for I am not determined which name to give it) upon political or civil government; the foundation of which being laid in the first conjunction betwixt male and female, for procreation of the species-I was insensibly led into it. -'Twas natural, said Yorick. 
The original of society, continued my father, I'm satisfied is, what Politian tells us, i. e. merely conjugal; and nothing more than the getting together of one man and one woman;-to which, (according to Hesiod) the philosopher adds a servant:-but supposing in the first beginning there were no men servants born-he lays the foundation of it, in a man,-a woman-and a bull. - I believe 'tis an ox, quoth Yorick, quoting the passage (????????????????????????????????????????????????) -A bull must have 
[Page 110]
given more trouble than his head was worth-But there is a better reason still, said my father, (dipping his pen into his ink) for, the ox being the most patient of animals, and the most useful withal in tilling the ground for their nourishment,-was the properest instrument, and emblem too, for the new joined couple, that the creation could have associated with them. -And there is a stronger reason, added my uncle Toby, than them all for the ox. -My father had not power to take his pen out of his ink-horn, till he had heard my uncle Toby's reason. -For when the ground was tilled, said my uncle Toby, and made worth inclosing, then they began to secure it by walls and ditches, which was the origin of fortification. -True, true; dear Toby, cried my father, striking out the bull, and putting the ox in his place. 
My father gave Trim a nod, to snuff the candle, and resumed his discourse. 

[Page 111]
-I enter upon this speculation, said my father carelessly, and half shutting the book, as he went on,-merely to shew the foundation of the natural relation between a father and his child; the right and jurisdiction over whom he acquires these several ways- 
1st, by marriage. 
2d, by adoption. 
3d, by legitimation. 
And 4th, by procreation; all which I consider in their order. 
I lay a slight stress upon one of them; replied Yorick-the act, especially where it ends there, in my opinion lays as little obligation upon the child, as it conveys power to the father. -You are wrong,-said my father argutely, and for this plain reason * * * * * * * * 
[Page 112]
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *. -I own, added my father, that the offspring, upon this account, is not so under the power and jurisdiction of the mother. - But the reason, replied Yorick, equally holds good for her. -She is under authority herself, said my father:-and besides, continued my father, nodding his head and laying his finger upon the side of his nose, as he assigned his reason, -she is not the principal agent, Yorick. -In what? quoth my uncle Toby, stopping his pipe. -Though by all means, added my father (not attending to my uncle Toby) "" as you may read, Yorick, at large in the first book of the Institutes of Justinian, at the eleventh title and the tenth section. -I can read it as well, replied Yorick, in the Catechism. 

[Page 113]

CHAP. XXXII. 
Trim can repeat every word of it by heart, quoth my uncle Toby. -Pugh! said my father, not caring to be interrupted with Trim's saying his Catechism. He can upon my honour, replied my uncle Toby. -Ask him, Mr. Yorick, any question you please.- 
-The fifth Commandment, Trim,- said Yorick, speaking mildly, and with a gentle nod, as to a modest Catechumen. The corporal stood silent. -You don't ask him right, said my uncle Toby, raising his voice, and giving it rapidly like the word of command;-The fifth -cried my uncle Toby. -I must begin with the first, an' please your honour, said the corporal.- 
-Yorick could not forbear smiling: -Your reverence does not consider, said 
[Page 114]
the corporal, shouldering his stick like a musket, and marching into the middle of the room, to illustrate his position, -that 'tis exactly the same thing, as doing one's exercise in the field.- 
"" cried the corporal, giving the word of command, and performing the motion.- 
"" cried the corporal, doing the duty still of both adjutant and private man.- 
""-one motion, an' please your reverence, you see leads, into another. -If his honour will begin but with the first- 
The first-cried my uncle Toby, setting his hand upon his side-* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *. 

[Page 115]
The second-cried my uncle Toby, waving his tobacco-pipe, as he would have done his sword at the head of a regiment. -The corporal went through his manual with exactness; and having honoured his father and mother, made a low bow, and fell back to the side of the room. 
Every thing in this world, said my father, is big with jest,-and has wit in it, and instruction too,-if we can but find it out. 
-Here is the scaffold work of Instruction, its true point of folly, without the BUILDING behind it.- 
-Here is the glass for pedagogues, preceptors, tutors, governours, gerund-grinders and bear-leaders to view themselves in, in their true dimensions.- 

[Page 116]
Oh! there is a husk and shell, Yorick, which grows up with learning, which their unskilfulness knows not how to fling away! 
-Sciences may be learned by rote, but Wisdom not. 
Yorick thought my father inspired. - I will enter into obligations this moment, said my father, to lay out all my aunt Dinah's legacy, in charitable uses (of which, by the bye, my father had no high opinion) if the corporal has any one determinate idea annexed to any one word he has repeated. -Prythee, Trim, quoth my father, turning round to him, -What do'st thou mean, by "" 
Allowing them, an' please your honour, three halfpence a day out of my pay, when they grew old. -And didst thou do that, Trim? said Yorick. -He 
[Page 117]
did indeed, replied my uncle Toby. - Then, Trim, said Yorick, springing out of his chair, and taking the corporal by the hand, thou art the best commentator upon that part of the Decalogue; and I honour thee more for it, corporal Trim, than if thou hadst had a hand in the Talmud itself. 
CHAP. XXXIII. 
O Blessed health! cried my father, making an exclamation, as he turned over the leaves to the next chapter, -thou art above all gold and treasure; 'tis thou who enlargest the soul,- and openest all it's powers to receive instruction and to relish virtue. -He that has thee, has little more to wish for;- and he that is so wretched as to want thee,-wants every thing with thee. 
I have concentrated all that can be said upon this important head, said my 
[Page 118]
father, into a very little room, therefore we'll read the chapter quite thro'. 
My father read as follows. 
""-You have proved that matter of fact, I suppose, above, said Yorick. Sufficiently, replied my father. 
In saying this, my father shut the book,-not as if he resolved to read no more of it, for he kept his forefinger in the chapter:-nor pettishly,-for he shut the book slowly; his thumb resting, when he had done it, upon the upperside of the cover, as his three fingers supported the lower side of it, without the least compressive violence.- 

[Page 119]
I have demonstrated the truth of that point, quoth my father, nodding to Yorick, most sufficiently in the preceding chapter. 
Now could the man in the moon be told, that a man in the earth had wrote a chapter, sufficiently demonstrating, That the secret of all health depended upon the due contention for mastery betwixt the radical heat and the radical moisture,- and that he had managed the point so well, that there was not one single word wet or dry upon radical heat or radical moisture, throughout the whole chapter, -or a single syllable in it, pro or con, directly or indirectly, upon the contention betwixt these two powers in any part of the animal œconomy- 
"" -he would cry, striking his breast with his right hand, (in case he had one)- 
[Page 120]
"" 
CHAP. XXXIV. 
With two strokes, the one at Hippocrates, the other at Lord Verulam, did my father atchieve it. 
The stroke at the prince of physicians, with which he began, was no more than a short insult upon his sorrowful camplaint of the Ars longa,-and Vita brevis. -Life short, cried my father,-and the art of healing tedious! And who are we to thank for both, the one and the other, but the ignorance of quacks themselves, -and the stage-loads of chymical nostrums, and peripatetic lumber, with 
[Page 121]
which in all ages, they have first flatter'd the world, and at last deceived it. 
-O my lord Verulam! cried my father, turning from Hippocrates, and making his second stroke at him, as the principal of nostrum-mongers, and the fittest to be made an example of to the rest,-What shall I say to thee, my great lord Verulam? What shall I say to thy internal spirit,-thy opium,-thy salt-petre,-thy greasy unctions,-thy daily purges,-thy nightly glisters, and succedaneums? 
-My father was never at a loss what to say to any man, upon any subject; and had the least occasion for the exordium of any man breathing: how he dealt with his lordship's opinion,- you shall see;-but when-I know not:-we must first see what his lordship's opinion was. 

[Page 122]

CHAP. XXXV. 
""The internal spirit, which like a gentle flame, wastes the body down to death: -And secondly, the external air, that parches the body up to ashes:-which two enemies attacking us on both sides of our bodies together, at length destroy our organs, and render them unfit to carry on the functions of life.""Quod omne animal post coitum est triste." 
Now it is certain, that the radical heat lives in the radical moisture, but whether vice versâ, is a doubt: however, when the one decays, the other decays also; and then is produced, either an unnatural heat, which causes an unnatural dryness -or an unnatural moisture, which causes dropsies. -So that if a child, as he grows up, can but be taught to avoid running into fire or water, as either of 'em threaten his destruction,-'twill be all that is needful to be done upon that head.- 

[Page 127]

CHAP. XXXVII. 
The description of the siege of Jerico itself, could not have engaged the attention of my uncle Toby more powerfully than the last chapter;-his eyes were fixed upon my father, throughout it;-he never mentioned radical heat and radical moisture, but my uncle Toby took his pipe out of his mouth, and shook his head; and as soon as the chapter was finished, he beckoned to the corporal to come close to his chair, to ask him the following question, -aside.-- * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *. It was at the siege of Limerick, an' please your honour, replied the corporal, making a bow. 

[Page 128]
The poor fellow and I, quoth my uncle Toby, addressing himself to my father, were scarce able to crawl out of our tents, at the time the siege of Limerick was raised, upon the very account you mention. -Now what can have got into that precious noddle of thine, my dear brother Toby? cried my father, mentally. -By Heaven! continued he, communing still with himself, it would puzzle an Œdipus to bring it in point.- 
I believe, an' please your honour, quoth the corporal, that if it had not been for the quantity of brandy we set fire to every night, and the claret and cinnamon with which I plyed your honour off;-And the geneva, Trim, added my uncle Toby, which did us more good than all-I verily believe, continued 
[Page 129]
the corporal, we had both, an' please your honour, left our lives in the trenches, and been buried in them too. -The noblest grave, corporal!his eyes sparkling as he spoke, that a soldier could wish to lie down in. - But a pitiful death for him! an' please your honour, replied the corporal. 
All this was as much Arabick to my father, as the rites of the Colchi and Troglodites had been before to my uncle Toby; my father could not determine whether he was to frown or smile.- 
My uncle Toby, turning to Yorick, resumed the case at Limerick, more intelligibly than he had begun it,-and so settled the point for my father at once. 

[Page 130]

CHAP. XXXVIII. 
It was undoubtedly, said my uncle Toby, a great happiness for myself and the corporal, that we had all along a burning fever, attended with a most raging thirst, during the whole five and twenty days the flux was upon us in the camp; otherwise what my brother calls the radical moisture, must, as I conceive it, inevitably have got the better. -My father drew in his lungs topfull of air, and looking up, blew it forth again, as slowly as he possibly could.- 
--It was heaven's mercy to us, continued my uncle Toby, which put it into the corporal's head to maintain that 
[Page 131]
due contention betwixt the radical heat and the radical moisture, by reinforcing the fever, as he did all along, with hot wine and spices; whereby the corporal kept up (as it were) a continual firing, so that the radical heat stood its ground from the beginning to the end, and was a fair match for the moisture, terrible as it was. -Upon my honour, added my uncle Toby, you might have heard the contention within our bodies, brother Shandy, twenty toises. -If there was no firing, said Yorick. 
Well-said my father, with a full aspiration, and pausing a while after the word-Was I a judge, and the laws of the country which made me one permitted it, I would condemn some of the worst malefactors, provided they 
[Page 132]
had had their clergy---- -Yorick foreseeing the sentence was likely to end with no sort of mercy, laid his hand upon my father's breast, and begged he would respite it for a few minutes, till he asked the corporal a question. -Prithee, Trim, said Yorick, without staying for my father's leave,- tell us honestly-what is thy opinion concerning this self same radical heat and radical moisture? 
With humble submission to his honour's better judgment, quoth the corporal, making a bow to my uncle Toby -Speak thy opinion freely, corporal, said my uncle Toby. -The poor fellow is my servant,-not my slave,-added my uncle Toby, turning to my father.- 

[Page 133]
The corporal put his hat under his left arm, and with his stick hanging upon the wrist of it, by a black thong split into a tassel about the knot, he marched up to the ground where he had performed his catechism; then touching his under jaw with the thumb and fingers of his right hand before he opened his mouth,-he delivered his notion thus. 
CHAP. XXXIX. 
Just as the corporal was humming, to begin-in waddled Dr. Slop. - 'Tis not two-pence matter-the corporal shall go on in the next chapter, let who will come in.- 
Well, my good doctor, cried my father sportively, for the transitions of his 
[Page 134]
passions were unaccountably sudden,- and what has this whelp of mine to say to the matter?- 
Had my father been asking after the amputation of the tail of a puppy-dog -he could not have done it in a more careless air: the system which Dr. Slop had laid down, to treat the accident by, no way allowed of such a mode of enquiry. -He sat down. 
Pray, Sir, quoth my uncle Toby, in a manner which could not go unanswered, -in what condition is the boy? -'Twill end in a phimosis, replied Dr. Slop. 
I am no wiser than I was, quoth my uncle Toby,-returning his pipe into his mouth. -Then let the corporal go on, 
[Page 135]
said my father, with his medical lecture. -The corporal made a bow to his old friend, Dr. Slop, and then delivered his opinion concerning radical heat, and radical moisture, in the following words. 
CHAP. XL. 
The city of Limerick, the siege of which was begun under his majesty king William himself, the year after I went into the army-lies, an' please your honours, in the middle of a devilish wet, swampy country. -'Tis quite surrounded, said my uncle Toby, with the Shannon, and is, by its situation, one of the strongest fortified places in Ireland.- 

[Page 136]
I think this is a new fashion, quoth Dr. Slop, of beginning a medical lecture. -'Tis all true, answered Trim. -Then I wish the faculty would follow the cut of it, said Yorick. -'Tis all cut through, an' please your reverence, said the corporal, with drains and bogs; and besides, there was such a quantity of rain fell during the siege, the whole country was like a puddle,-'twas that, and nothing else, which brought on the flux, and which had like to have killed both his honour and myself; now there was no such thing, after the first ten days, continued the corporal, for a soldier to lie dry in his tent, without cutting a ditch round it, to draw off the water;-nor was that enough, for those who could afford it, as his honour could, without setting fire every night 
[Page 137]
to a pewter dish full of brandy, which took off the damp of the air, and made the inside of the tent as warm as a stove.- 
And what conclusion dost thou draw, Corporal Trim, cried my father, from all these premises? 
I infer, an' please your worship, replied Trim, that the radical moisture is nothing in the world but ditch-water- and that the radical heat, of those who can go to the expence of it, is burnt brandy-the radical heat and moisture of a private man, an' please your honours, is nothing but ditch-water-and a dram of geneva-and give us but enough of it, with a pipe of tobacco, to give us spirits, and drive away the vapours 
[Page 138]
-we know not what it is to fear death. 
I am at a loss, Captain Shandy, quoth Doctor Slop, to determine in which branch of learning your servant shines most, whether in physiology, or divinity. - Slop had not forgot Trim's comment upon the sermon.- 
It is but an hour ago, replied Yorick, since the corporal was examined in the latter, and pass'd muster with great honour.- 
The radical heat and moisture, quoth Doctor Slop, turning to my father, you must know, is the basis and foundation of our being,-as the root of a tree is the source and principle of its vegetation. 
[Page 139]
-It is inherent in the seeds of all animals, and may be preserved sundry ways, but principally in my opinion by consubstantials, impriments, and occludents. -Now this poor fellow, continued Dr. Slop, pointing to the corporal, has had the misfortune to have heard some superficial empiric discourse upon this nice point. -That he has,-said my father. -Very likely, said my uncle. -I'm sure of it-quoth Yorick.- 
CHAP. XLI. 
Doctor Slop being called out to look at a cataplasm he had ordered, it gave my father an opportunity of going on with another chapter in the Tristra-pædia. -Come! chear up, my 
[Page 140]
lads; I'll shew you land-for when we have tugged through that chapter, the book shall not be opened again this twelvemonth. -Huzza!- 
CHAP. XLII. 
-Five years with a bib under his chin; 
Four years in travelling from Christ-cross-row to Malachi; 
A year and a half in learning to write his own name; 
Seven long years and more ?????-ing it, at Greek and Latin; 
Four years at his probations and his negations-the fine statue still lying in 
[Page 141]
the middle of the marble block,-and nothing done, but his tools sharpened to hew it out! -'Tis a piteous delay! - Was not the great Julius Scaliger within an ace of never getting his tools sharpened at all? -Forty-four years old was he before he could manage his Greek;-and Peter Damianus, lord bishop of Ostia, as all the world knows, could not so much as read, when he was of man's estate. -And Baldus himself, as eminent as he turned out after, entered upon the law so late in life, that every body imagined he intended to be an advocate in the other world: no wonder, when Eudamidas, the son of Archidamas, heard Xenocrates at seventy-five disputing about wisdom, that he asked gravely,-If the old man be yet disputing and enquiring concerning wisdom, 
[Page 142]
-what time will he have to make use of it? 
Yorick listened to my father with great attention; there was a seasoning of wisdom unaccountably mixed up with his strangest whims, and he had sometimes such illuminations in the darkest of his eclipses, as almost attoned for them:- be wary, Sir, when you imitate him. 
I am convinced, Yorick, continued my father, half reading and half discoursing, that there is a north-west passage to the intellectual world; and that the soul of man has shorter ways of going to work, in furnishing itself with knowledge and instruction, than we generally take with it. -But alack! all fields have not a river or a spring running 
[Page 143]
besides them;-every child, Yorick! has not a parent to point it out. 
-The whole entirely depends, added my father, in a low voice, upon the auxiliary verbs, Mr. Yorick. 
Had Yorick trod upon Virgil's snake, he could not have looked more surprised. -I am surprised too, cried my father, observing it,-and I reckon it as one of the greatest calamities which ever befell the republick of letters, That those who have been entrusted with the education of our children, and whose business it was to open their minds, and stock them early with ideas, in order to set the imagination loose upon them, have made so little use of the auxiliary verbs in doing it, as they have done-So that, except 
[Page 144]
Raymond Lullius, and the elder Pelegrini, the last of which arrived to such perfection in the use of 'em, with his topics, that in a few lessons, he could teach a young gentleman to discourse with plausibility upon any subject, pro and con, and to say and write all that could be spoken or written concerning it, without blotting a word, to the admiration of all who beheld him. -I should be glad, said Yorick, interrupting my father, to be made to comprehend this matter. You shall, said my father. 
The highest stretch of improvement a single word is capable of, is a high metaphor, -for which, in my opinion, the idea is generally the worse, and not the better;-but be that as it may, 
[Page 145]
-when the mind has done that, with it -there is an end,-the mind and the idea are at rest,-until a second idea enters; -and so on. 
Now the use of the Auxiliaries is, at once to set the soul a going by herself upon the materials as they are brought her; and by the versability of this great engine, round which they are twisted, to open new tracks of enquiry, and make every idea engender millions. 
You excite my curiosity greatly, said Yorick. 
For my own part, quoth my uncle Toby, I have given it up. -The Danes, an' please your honour, quoth the corporal, who were on the left at the siege 
[Page 146]
of Limerick were all auxiliaries. -And very good ones, said my uncle Toby. - And your honour roul'd with them, captains with captains. -Very well, said the corporal. -But the auxiliaries, my brother is talking about, answered my uncle Toby, -I conceive to be different things.- 
-You do? said my father, rising up. 
CHAP. XLIII. 
My father took a single turn across the room, then sat down and finished the chapter. 
The verbs auxiliary we are concerned in here, continued my father, are am; was; have; had; do; did; make; made; suffer; 
[Page 147]
shall; should; will; would; can; could; owe; ought; used; or is wont. -And these varied with tenses, present, past, future, conjugated with the verb see,-or with these questions added to them;-Is it? Was it? Will it be? Would it be? May it be? Might it be? And these again put negatively, Is it not? Was it not? Ought it not? -Or affirmatively,-It is; It was; It ought to be. Or chronologically, -Has it been always? Lately? How long ago? -Or hypothetically,-If it was; If it was not? What would follow? -If the French should beat the English? If the Sun go out of the Zodiac? 
Now, by the right use and application of these, continued my father, in which 
[Page 148]
a child's memory should be exercised, there is no one idea can enter his brain how barren soever, but a magazine of conceptions and conclusions may be drawn forth from it. -Did'st thou ever see a white bear? cried my father, turning his head round to Trim, who stood at the back of his chair: -No, an' please your honour, replied the corporal. -But thou could'st discourse about one, Trim, said my father, in case of need? -How is it possible, brother, quoth my uncle Toby, if the corporal never saw one? -'Tis the fact, I want, replied my father,-and the possibility of it, is as follows. 
A white bear! Very well. Have I ever seen one? Might I ever have seen 
[Page 149]
one? Am I ever to see one? Ought I ever to have seen one? Or can I ever see one? 
Would I had seen a white bear? (for how can I imagine it?) 
If I should see a white bear, what should I say? If I should never see a white bear, what then? 
If I never have, can, must or shall see a white bear alive; have I ever seen the skin of one? Did I ever see one painted?-described? Have I never dreamed of one? 
Did my father, mother, uncle, aunt, brothers or sisters; ever see a white bear? 
[Page 150]
What would they give? How would they behave? How would the white bear have behaved? Is he wild? Tame? Terrible? Rough? Smooth? 
-Is the white bear worth seeing?- 
-Is there no sin in it?- 
Is it better than a black one? 

End of the Fifth Volume.

Vol. 6 

[Page ]

Title Page 
THE LIFE and OPINIONS OF TRISTRAM SHANDY, Gent. Vol. VI.

[Page ]

[Blank page]


[Page ]

Title Page 
THE LIFE AND OPINIONS OF TRISTRAM SHANDY, Gentleman. 



Dixero si quid fortè jocosius, hoc mihi juris 
Cum venia dabis.-
Hor.

-Si quis calumnietur levius esse quam decet theologum, aut mordacius quam deceat Christianum-non Ego, sed Democritus dixit- 
Erasmus.
The SECOND EDITION. VOL. VI.
LONDON: Printed for T. Becket and P. A. Dehondt, in the Strand. MDCCLXVII.



[Page ]

[Blank page]


[Page 1]
THE LIFE and OPINIONS OF TRISTRAM SHANDY, Gent.
CHAP. I. 
-We'll not stop two moments, my dear Sir,-only, as we have got thro' these five volumes, (do, Sir, sit down upon a set-they are better than nothing) let us just look back upon the country we have pass'd through.- 
-What a wilderness has it been! and what a mercy that we have not both 
[Page 2]
of us been lost, or devoured by wild beasts in it. 
Did you think the world itself, Sir, had contained such a number of Jack Asses? -How they view'd and review'd us as we passed over the rivulet at the bottom of that little valley!- and when we climbed over that hill, and were just getting out of sight-good God! what a braying did they all set up together! 
-Prithee, shepherd! who keeps all those Jack Asses? * * * 
-Heaven be their comforter- What! are they never curried? -Are they never taken in in winter? --Bray bray-bray. Bray on,-the world is deeply your debtor;-louder still- 
[Page 3]
that's nothing;-in good sooth, you are ill-used: -Was I a Jack Asse, I solemnly declare, I would bray in G-sol-re-ut from morning, even unto night. 
CHAP. II. 
When my father had danced his white bear backwards and forwards through half a dozen pages, he closed the book for good an' all,-and in a kind of triumph redelivered it into Trim's hand, with a nod to lay it upon the 'scrutoire where he found it. -Tristram,shall be made to conjugate every word in the dictionary, backwards and forwards the same way;-every word, Yorick, by this means, you see, is converted into a thesis or an hypothesis;- every thesis and hypothesis have an offspring 
[Page 4]
of propositions;-and each proposition has its own consequences and conclusions; every one of which leads the mind on again, into fresh tracks of enquiries and doubtings. -The force of this engine, added my father, is incredible, in opening a child's head. - 'Tis enough, brother Shandy,to burst it into a thousand splinters.- 
I presume, said Yorick, smiling,-it must be owing to this,-(for let logicians say what they will, it is not to be accounted for sufficiently from the bare use of the ten predicaments)-That the famous Vincent Quirino, amongst the many other astonishing feats of his childhood, of which the Cardinal Bembo has given the world so exact a story,-should be able to paste up in the publick schools 
[Page 5]
at Rome, so early as in the eighth year of his age, no less than four thousand, five hundred, and sixty different theses, upon the most abstruse points of the most abstruse theology;-and to defend and maintain them in such sort, as to cramp and dumbfound his opponents. - What is that, cried my father, to what is told us of Alphonsus Tostatus, who, almost in his nurse's arms, learned all the sciences and liberal arts without being taught any one of them? -What shall we say of the great Piereskius? - That's the very man,I once told you of, brother Shandy, who walked a matter of five hundred miles, reckoning from Paris to Schevling, and from Schevling back again, merely to see Stevinus's flying chariot. -He was a very great man! added my uncle Toby; (meaning Stevinus)-He was so; 
[Page 6]
brother Toby, said my father, (meaning Piereskius)-and had multiplied his ideas so fast, and increased his knowlege to such a prodigious stock, that, if we may give credit to an anecdote concerning him, which we cannot withhold here, without shaking the authority of all anecdotes whatever-at seven years of age, his father committed entirely to his care the education of his younger brother, a boy of five years old,-with the sole management of all his concerns. -Was the father as wise as the son? quoth my uncle Toby: -I should think not, said Yorick: - But what are these, continued my father- (breaking out in a kind of enthusiasm) -what are these, to those prodigies of childhood in Grotius, Scioppius, Heinsius, Politian, Pascal, Joseph Scaliger, Ferdinand de Cordouè, and others-some of which left off their substantial forms at 
[Page 7]
nine years old, or sooner, and went on reasoning without them;-others went through their classics at seven;-wrote tragedies at eight;-Ferdinand de Cordouè was so wise at nine-'twas thought the Devil was in him;-and at Venice gave such proofs of his knowlege and goodness, that the monks imagined he was Antichrist, or nothing. -Others were masters of fourteen languages at ten,-finished the course of their rhetoric, poetry, logic, and ethics, at eleven, -put forth their commentaries upon Servius and Martianus Capella at twelve, -and at thirteen received their degrees in philosophy, laws, and divinity: - But you forget the great Lipsius, quoth Yorick, who composed a work * 24 the day 
[Page 8]
he was born;-They should have wiped it up, said my uncle Toby, and said no more about it. 
CHAP. III. 
When the cataplasm was ready, a scruple of decorum had unseasonably rose up in Susannah's conscience, about holding the candle, whilst Slop tied it on; Slop had not treated Susannah's distemper with anodines,-and so a quarrel had ensued betwixt them. 

[Page 9]
-Oh! oh!-said Slop, casting a glance of undue freedom in Susannah's face, as she declined the office;-then, I think I know you, madam-You know me, Sir! cried Susannah fastidiously, and with a toss of her head, levelled evidently, not at his profession, but at the doctor himself,-you know me! cried Susannah again. -Doctor Slop clapped his finger and his thumb instantly upon his nostrils;-Susannah's spleen was ready to burst at it;- 'Tis false, said Susannah. -Come, come, Mrs. Modesty, said Slop, not a little elated with the success of his last thrust, -if you won't hold the candle, and look-you may hold it and shut your eyes: -That's one of your popish shifts, cried Susannah: -'Tis better, said Slop, with a nod, than no shift at all, young 
[Page 10]
woman;-I defy you, Sir, cried Susannah, pulling her shift sleeve below her elbow. 
It was almost impossible for two persons to assist each other in a surgical case with a more splenetic cordiality. 
Slop snatched up the cataplasm,- Susannah snatched up the candle;- A little this way, said Slop; Susannah looking one way, and rowing another, instantly set fire to Slop's wig, which being somewhat bushy and unctuous withal, was burnt out before it was well kindled. --You impudent whore! cried Slop,-(for what is passion, but a wild beast)-you impudent whore, cried Slop, getting upright, with the cataplasm in his hand;--I never was the destruction of any body's nose, said Susannah, -which is more than you can say: 
[Page 11]
-Is it? cried Slop, throwing the cataplasm in her face;-Yes, it is, cried Susannah, returning the compliment with what was left in the pan.- 
CHAP. IV. 
Doctor Slop and Susannah filed cross-bills against each other in the parlour; which done, as the cataplasm had failed, they retired into the kitchen to prepare a fomentation for me;-and whilst that was doing, my father determined the point as you will read. 
CHAP. V. 
You see 'tis high time, said my father, addressing himself equally to my uncle Toby and Yorick, to take this young creature out of these women's hands, and put him into those of a private governor. Marcus Antoninus provided fourteen 
[Page 12]
governors all at once to superintend his son Commodus's education,-and in six weeks he cashiered five of them;- I know very well, continued my father, that Commodus's mother was in love with a gladiator at the time of her conception, which accounts for a great many of Commodus's cruelties when he became emperor;-but still I am of opinion, that those five whom Antoninus dismissed, did Commodus's temper in that short time, more hurt than the other nine were able to rectify all their lives long. 
Now as I consider the person who is to be about my son, as the mirror in which he is to view himself from morning to night, and by which he is to adjust his looks, his carriage, and perhaps the inmost sentiments of his heart;-I would have one, Yorick, if possible, polished at 
[Page 13]
all points, fit for my child to look into. -This is very good sense, quoth my uncle Toby to himself. 
-There is, continued my father, a certain mien and motion of the body and all its parts, both in acting and speaking, which argues a man well within: and I am not at all surprized that Gregory of Nazianzum, upon observing the hasty and untoward gestures of Julian, should foretel he would one day become an apostate;-or that St. Ambrose should turn his Amanuensis out of doors, because of an indecent motion of his head, which went backwards and forwards like a flail;-or that Democritus should conceive Protagoras to be a scholar, from seeing him bind up a faggot, and thrusting, as he did it, the small twigs inwards. -There are a 
[Page 14]
thousand unnoticed openings, continued my father, which let a penetrating eye at once into a man's soul; and I maintain it, added he, that a man of sense does not lay down his hat in coming into a room,-or take it up in going out of it, but something escapes, which discovers him. 
It is for these reasons, continued my father, that the governor I make choice of shall neither * 25 lisp, or squint, or wink, or talk loud, or look fierce, or foolish; -or bite his lips, or grind his teeth, or speak through his nose, or pick it, or blow it with his fingers.- 
He shall neither walk fast,-or slow, or fold his arms,-for that is laziness;- or hang them down,-for that is folly; 
[Page 15]
or hide them in his pocket, for that is nonsense.- 
He shall neither strike, or pinch, or tickle,-or bite, or cut his nails, or hawk, or spit, or snift, or drum with his feet or fingers in company;-nor (according to Erasmus) shall he speak to any one in making water,-nor shall he point to carrion or excrement. -Now this is all nonsense again, quoth my uncle Toby to himself.- 
I will have him, continued my father, cheerful, faceté, jovial; at the same time, prudent, attentive to business, vigilant, acute, argute, inventive, quick in resolving doubts and speculative questions; -he shall be wise and judicious, and learned: -And why not humble, and moderate, and gentle tempered, and 
[Page 16]
good? said Yorick: -And why not,free, and generous, and bountiful, and brave? -He shall my dear Toby, replied my father, getting up and shaking him by his hand. - Then, brother Shandy, answered my uncle Toby, raising himself off the chair, and laying down his pipe to take hold of my father's other hand,-I humbly beg I may recommend poor Le Fever's son to you;-a tear of joy of the first water sparkled in my uncle Toby's eye,-and another, the fellow to it, in the corporal's, as the proposition was made;- you will see why when you read Le Fever's story:-fool that I was! nor can I recollect, (nor perhaps you) without turning back to the place, what it was that hindered me from letting the corporal tell it in his own words;-but 
[Page 17]
the occasion is lost,-I must tell it now in my own. 
CHAP. VI. 

The Story of Le Fever. 
It was some time in the summer of that year in which Dendermond was taken by the allies,-which was about seven years before my father came into the country,-and about as many, after the time, that my uncle Toby and Trim had privately decamped from my father's house in town, in order to lay some of the finest sieges to some of the finest fortified cities in Europe-when my uncle Toby was one evening getting his supper, with Trim sitting behind him at a small sideboard,-I say, sitting-for 
[Page 18]
in consideration of the corporal's lame knee (which sometimes gave him exquisite pain)-when my uncle Toby dined or supped alone, he would never suffer the corporal to stand; and the poor fellow's veneration for his master was such, that, with a proper artillery, my uncle Toby could have taken Dendermond itself, with less trouble than he was able to gain this point over him; for many a time when my uncle Toby supposed the corporal's leg was at rest, he would look back, and detect him standing behind him with the most dutiful respect: this bred more little squabbles betwixt them, than all other causes for five and twenty years together-But this is neither here nor there-why do I mention it? - Ask my pen,-it governs me,-I govern not it. 

[Page 19]
He was one evening sitting thus at his supper, when the landlord of a little inn in the village came into the parlour with an empty phial in his hand, to beg a glass or two of sack; 'Tis for a poor gentleman,-I think, of the army, said the landlord, who has been taken ill at my house four days ago, and has never held up his head since, or had a desire to taste any thing, till just now, that he has a fancy for a glass of sack and a thin toast,-I think, says he, taking his hand from his forehead, it would comfort me.- 
-If I could neither beg, borrow, or buy such a thing,-added the landlord, -I would almost steal it for the poor gentleman, he is so ill. -I hope in God he will still mend, continued he, -we are all of us concerned for him. 

[Page 20]
Thou art a good natured soul, I will answer for thee, cried my uncle Toby; and thou shalt drink the poor gentleman's health in a glass of sack thyself, -and take a couple of bottles with my service, and tell him he is heartily welcome to them, and to a dozen more if they will do him good. 
Though I am persuaded, said my uncle Toby, as the landlord shut the door, he is a very compassionate fellow-Trim, -yet I cannot help entertaining a high opinion of his guest too; there must be something more than common in him, that in so short a time should win so much upon the affections of his host; -And of his whole family, added the corporal, for they are all concerned for him. -Step after him, said my 
[Page 21]
uncle Toby,-do Trim,-and ask if he knows his name. 
-I have quite forgot it, truly, said the landlord, coming back into the parlour with the corporal,-but I can ask his son again: -Has he a son with him then? said my uncle Toby. -A boy, replied the landlord, of about eleven or twelve years of age;-but the poor creature has tasted almost as little as his father; he does nothing but mourn and lament for him night and day: -He has not stirred from the bedside these two days. 
My uncle Toby laid down his knife and fork, and thrust his plate from before him, as the landlord gave him the account; and Trim, without being ordered, took away without saying one 
[Page 22]
word, and in a few minutes after brought him his pipe and tobacco. 
-Stay in the room a little, said my uncle Toby.- 
Trim!-said my uncle Toby, after he lighted his pipe, and smoak'd about a dozen whiffs. -Trim came in front of his master and made his bow;-my uncle Toby smoak'd on, and said no more. -Corporal! said my uncle Toby -the corporal made his bow. - My uncle Toby proceeded no farther, but finished his pipe. 
Trim! said my uncle Toby, I have a project in my head, as it is a bad night, of wrapping myself up warm in my roquelaure, and paying a visit to this poor gentleman. --Your honour's roquelaure, 
[Page 23]
replied the corporal, has not once been had on, since the night before your honour received your wound, when we mounted guard in the trenches before the gate of St. Nicholas;-and besides it is so cold and rainy a night, that what with the roquelaure, and what with the weather, 'twill be enough to give your honour your death, and bring on your honour's torment in your groin. I fear so; replied my uncle Toby, but I am not at rest in my mind, Trim, since the account the landlord has given me. -I wish I had not known so much of this affair,-added my uncle Toby,-or that I had known more of it: -How shall we manage it? Leave it, an't please your honour, to me, quoth the corporal;-I'll take my hat and stick, and go to the house and reconnoitre, and act accordingly; and I will bring your 
[Page 24]
honour a full account in an hour. - Thou shalt go, Trim, said my uncle Toby, and here's a shilling for thee to drink with his servant. -I shall get it all out of him, said the corporal, shutting the door. 
My uncle Toby filled his second pipe; and had it not been, that he now and then wandered from the point, with considering whether it was not full as well to have the curtain of the tennaile a straight line, as a crooked one,-he might be said to have thought of nothing else but poor Le Fever and his boy the whole time he smoaked it. 

[Page 25]

CHAP. VII. 

The Story of Le Fever continued. 
It was not till my uncle Toby had knocked the ashes out of his third pipe, that corporal Trim returned from the inn, and gave him the following account. 
I despaired at first, said the corporal, of being able to bring back your honour any kind of intelligence concerning the poor sick lieutenant-Is he in the army then? said my uncle Toby-He is: said the corporal-And in what regiment? said my uncle Toby-I'll tell your honour, replied the corporal, every thing straight forwards, as I learnt it. - Then Trim, I'll fill another pipe, said my uncle Toby, and not interrupt thee 
[Page 26]
till thou hast done; so sit down at thy ease, Trim, in the window seat, and begin thy story again. The corporal made his old bow, which generally spoke as plain as a bow could speak it-Your honour is good: -And having done that, he sat down, as he was ordered,- and begun the story to my uncle Toby over again in pretty near the same words. 
I despaired at first, said the corporal, of being able to bring back any intelligence to your honour, about the lieutenant and his son; for when I asked where his servant was, from whom I made myself sure of knowing every thing which was proper to be asked,- That's a right distinction, Trim, said my uncle Toby-I was answered, an' please your honour, that he had no servant 
[Page 27]
with him;-that he had come to the inn with hired horses, which, upon finding himself unable to proceed, (to join, I suppose, the regiment) he had dismissed the morning after he came. - If I get better, my dear,as he gave his purse to his son to pay the man, -we can hire horses from hence. - But alas! the poor gentleman will never get from hence, said the landlady to me, -for I heard the death-watch all night long;-and when he dies, the youth, his son, will certainly die with him; for he is broken hearted already. 
I was hearing this account, continued the corporal, when the youth came into the kitchen, to order the thin toast the landlord spoke of;-but I will do it for my father myself, said the youth. -Pray let me save you the trouble, 
[Page 28]
young gentleman, said I, taking up a fork for the purpose, and offering him my chair to sit down upon by the fire, whilst I did it. -I believe, Sir,very modestly, I can please him best myself. -I am sure, said I, his honour will not like the toast the worse for being toasted by an old soldier. -The youth took hold of my hand, and instantly burst into tears. -Poor youth! said my uncle Toby,-he has been bred up from an infant in the army, and the name of a soldier, Trim, sounded in his ears like the name of a friend;-I wish I had him here. 
-I never in the longest march, said the corporal, had so great a mind to my dinner, as I had to cry with him for company: -What could be the matter with me, an' please your honour? 
[Page 29]
Nothing in the world, Trim, said my uncle Toby, blowing his nose,-but that thou art a good natured fellow. 
When I gave him the toast, continued the corporal, I thought it was proper to tell him I was Captain Shandy's servant, and that your honour (though a stranger) was extremely concerned for his father;-and that if there was any thing in your house or cellar-(And thou might'st have added my purse too, said my uncle Toby)-he was heartily welcome to it: -He made a very low bow, (which was meant to your honour) but no answer,-for his heart was full- so he went up stairs with the toast;-I warrant you, my dear, said I, as I opened the kitchen door, your father will be well again. -Mr. Yorick's curate was 
[Page 30]
smoaking a pipe by the kitchen fire,- but said not a word good or bad to comfort the youth. -I thought it wrong; added the corporal-I think so too, said my uncle Toby.- 
When the lieutenant had taken his glass of sack and toast, he felt himself a little revived, and sent down into the kitchen, to let me know, that in about ten minutes he should be glad if I would step up stairs. -I believe, said the landlord, he is going to say his prayers,-for there was a book laid upon the chair by his bedside, and as I shut the door, I saw his son take up a cushion.- 
I thought, said the curate, that you gentlemen of the army, Mr. Trim, never said your prayers at all. -I heard the 
[Page 31]
poor gentleman say his prayers last night, said the landlady, very devoutly, and with my own ears, or I could not have believed it. -Are you sure of it? replied the curate. -A soldier, an' please your reverence, said I, prays as often (of his own accord) as a parson; -and when he is fighting for his king, and for his own life, and for his honour too, he has the most reason to pray to God, of any one in the whole world-'Twas well said of thee, Trim, said my uncle Toby. --But when a soldier, said I, an' please your reverence, has been standing for twelve hours together in the trenches, up to his knees in cold water,-or engaged, said I, for months together in long and dangerous marches;-harrassed, perhaps, in his rear to-day;-harrassing others to-morrow; -detached here;-countermanded 
[Page 32]
there;-resting this night out upon his arms;-beat up in his shirt the next;- benumbed in his joints;-perhaps without straw in his tent to kneel on;-must say his prayers how and when he can. - I believe, said I,-for I was piqued, quoth the corporal, for the reputation of the army,-I believe, an't please your reverence, said I, that when a soldier gets time to pray,-he prays as heartily as a parson,-though not with all his fuss and hypocrisy. -Thou should'st not have said that, Trim, said my uncle Toby,-for God only knows who is a hypocrite, and who is not: --At the great and general review of us all, corporal, at the day of judgment, (and not till then)-it will be seen who has done their duties in this world,-and who has not; and we shall be advanced, Trim, accordingly. -I hope we shall, 
[Page 33]
said Trim. -It is in the Scripture, said my uncle Toby; and I will shew it thee to-morrow: -In the mean time we may depend upon it, Trim, for our comfort, said my uncle Toby, that God Almighty is so good and just a governor of the world, that if we have but done our duties in it,-it will never be enquired into, whether we have done them in a red coat or a black one: - I hope not; said the corporal-But go on, Trim, said my uncle Toby, with thy story. 
When I went up, continued the corporal, into the lieutenant's room, which I did not do till the expiration of the ten minutes,-he was lying in his bed with his head raised upon his hand, with his elbow upon the pillow, and a clean white cambrick handkerchief beside 
[Page 34]
it: -The youth was just stooping down to take up the cushion, upon which I supposed he had been kneeling, -the book was laid upon the bed,- and as he rose, in taking up the cushion with one hand, he reached out his other to take it away at the same time. - Let it remain there, my dear, said the lieutenant. 
He did not offer to speak to me, till I had walked up close to his bed-side: - If you are Captain Shandy's servant,you must present my thanks to your master, with my little boy's thanks along with them, for his courtesy to me;-if he was of Levens's-said the lieutenant. -I told him your honour was-Then,I served three campaigns with him in Flanders, and remember him-but 'tis most likely, as 
[Page 35]
I had not the honour of any acquaintance with him, that he knows nothing of me. -You will tell him, however, that the person his good nature has laid under obligations to him, is one Le Fever, a lieutenant in Angus's-but he knows me not,-said he, a second time, musing;-possibly he may my story-added he-pray tell the captain, I was the ensign at Breda, whose wife was most unfortunately killed with a musket shot, as she lay in my arms in my tent. -I remember the story, an't please your honour, said I, very well. -Do you so?wiping his eyes with his handkerchief,-then well may I. -In saying this, he drew a little ring out of his bosom, which seemed tied with a black ribband about his neck, and kiss'd it twice-Here, Billy, said he,-the boy flew across the room to 
[Page 36]
the bed side,-and falling down upon his knee, took the ring in his hand, and kissed it too,-then kissed his father, and sat down upon the bed and wept. 
I wish, said my uncle Toby, with a deep sigh,-I wish, Trim, I was asleep. 
Your honour, replied the corporal, is too much concerned;--shall I pour your honour out a glass of sack to your pipe? --Do, Trim, said my uncle Toby. 
I remember, said my uncle Toby, sighing again, the story of the ensign and his wife, with a circumstance his modesty omitted;-and particularly well that he, as well as she, upon some account or other, (I forgot what) was universally pitied by the whole regiment; 
[Page 37]
-but finish the story thou art upon: -'Tis finished already, said the corporal, -for I could stay no longer,-so wished his honour a good night; young Le Fever rose from off the bed, and saw me to the bottom of the stairs; and as we went down together, told me, they had come from Ireland, and were on their route to join the regiment in Flanders. -But alas! said the corporal,- the lieutenant's last day's march is over. -Then what is to become of his poor boy? cried my uncle Toby. 
CHAP. VIII. 

The Story of Le Fever continued. 
It was to my uncle Toby's eternal honour, -though I tell it only for the sake of those, who, when coop'd in betwixt a natural and a positive law, 
[Page 38]
know not for their souls, which way in the world to turn themselves-That notwithstanding my uncle Toby was warmly engaged at that time in carrying on the siege of Dendermond, parallel with the allies, who pressed theirs on so vigorously, that they scarce allowed him time to get his dinner-that nevertheless he gave up Dendermond, though he had already made a lodgment upon the counterscarp;-and bent his whole thoughts towards the private distresses at the inn; and, except that he ordered the garden gate to be bolted up, by which he might be said to have turned the siege of Dendermond into a blockade, -he left Dendermond to itself,-to be relieved or not by the French king, as the French king thought good; and only considered how he himself should relieve the poor lieutenant and his son. 

[Page 39]
-That kind Being, who is a friend to the friendless, shall recompence thee for this. 
Thou hast left this matter short, said my uncle Toby to the corporal, as he was putting him to bed,-and I will tell thee in what, Trim. -In the first place, when thou madest an offer of my services to Le Fever,-as sickness and travelling are both expensive, and thou knowest he was but a poor lieutenant, with a son to subsist as well as himself, out of his pay,-that thou didst not make an offer to him of my purse; because, had he stood in need, thou knowest, Trim, he had been as welcome to it as myself. -Your honour knows, said the corporal, I had no orders;-True, quoth my uncle Toby,-thou didst very 
[Page 40]
right, Trim, as a soldier,-but certainly very wrong as a man. 
In the second place, for which, indeed, thou hast the same excuse, continued my uncle Toby,-when thou offeredst him whatever was in my house,-thou shouldst have offered him my house too: -A sick brother officer should have the best quarters, Trim, and if we had him with us,-we could tend and look to him: -Thou art an excellent nurse thyself, Trim,-and what with thy care of him, and the old woman's, and his boy's, and mine together, we might recruit him again at once, and set him upon his legs.- 
-In a fortnight or three weeks, added my uncle Toby, smiling,-he might march. -He will never march, 
[Page 41]
an' please your honour, in this world, said the corporal: -He will march; said my uncle Toby, rising up from the side of the bed, with one shoe off: - An' please your honour, said the corporal, he will never march, but to his grave: -He shall march,marching the foot which had a shoe on, though without advancing an inch,-he shall march to his regiment. -He cannot stand it, said the corporal,-He shall be supported, said my uncle Toby;-He'll drop at last, said the corporal, and what will become of his boy? -He shall not drop, said my uncle Toby, firmly. -A-well-o'day, -do what we can for him, said Trim, maintaining his point,-the poor soul will die: -He shall not die, by G---, cried my uncle Toby. 

[Page 42]
-The ACCUSING SPIRIT which flew up to heaven's chancery with the oath, blush'd as he gave it in-and the RECORDING ANGEL as he wrote it down, dropp'd a tear upon the word, and blotted it out for ever. 
CHAP. IX. 
-My uncle Toby went to his bureau,-put his purse into his breeches pocket, and having ordered the corporal to go early in the morning for a physician,-he went to bed, and fell asleep. 

[Page 43]

CHAP. X. 

The Story of Le Fever concluded. 
The sun looked bright the morning after, to every eye in the village but Le Fever's and his afflicted son's; the hand of death press'd heavy upon his eye-lids,-and hardly could the wheel at the cistern turn round its circle, -when my uncle Toby, who had rose up an hour before his wonted time, entered the lieutenant's room, and without preface or apology, sat himself down upon the chair by the bed-side, and independantly of all modes and customs, opened the curtain in the manner an old friend and brother officer would have done it, and asked him how he did,- how he had rested in the night,-what 
[Page 44]
was his complaint,-where was his pain,-and what he could do to help him:-and without giving him time to answer any one of the enquiries, went on and told him of the little plan which he had been concerting with the corporal the night before for him.- 
-You shall go home directly, Le Fever, said my uncle Toby, to my house, -and we'll send for a doctor to see what's the matter,-and we'll have an apothecary,-and the corporal shall be your nurse;-and I'll be your servant, Le Fever. 
There was a frankness in my uncle Toby,-not the effect of familiarity,-but the cause of it,-which let you at once into his soul, and shewed you the goodness of his nature; to this, there was 
[Page 45]
something in his looks, and voice, and manner, superadded, which eternally beckoned to the unfortunate to come and take shelter under him; so that before my uncle Toby had half finished the kind offers he was making to the father, had the son insensibly pressed up close to his knees, and had taken hold of the breast of his coat, and was pulling it towards him. -The blood and spirits of Le Fever, which were waxing cold and slow within him, and were retreating to their last citadel, the heart,-rallied back, the film forsook his eyes for a moment,-he looked up wishfully in my uncle Toby's face,-then cast a look upon his boy,-and that ligament, fine as it was,-was never broken.- 
Nature instantly ebb'd again,-the film returned to its place,-the pulse 
[Page 46]
fluttered-stopp'd-went on- -throb'd-stopp'd again-moved -stopp'd-shall I go on? - No. 
CHAP. XI. 
I Am so impatient to return to my own story, that what remains of young Le Fever's, that is, from this turn of his fortune, to the time my uncle Toby recommended him for my preceptor, shall be told in a very few words, in the next chapter. -All that is necessary to be added to this chapter is as follows.- 
That my uncle Toby, with young Le Fever in his hand, attended the poor lieutenant, as chief mourners, to his grave. 

[Page 47]
That the governor of Dendermond paid his obsequies all military honours,-and that Yorick, not to be behind hand- paid him all ecclesiastic-for he buried him in his chancel: -And it appears likewise, he preached a funeral sermon over him-I say it appears,-for it was Yorick's custom, which I suppose a general one with those of his profession, on the first leaf of every sermon which he composed, to chronicle down the time, the place, and the occasion of its being preached: to this, he was ever wont to add some short comment or stricture upon the sermon itself, seldom indeed, much to its credit: -For instance, This sermon upon the jewish dispensation -I don't like it at all;-Though I own there is a world of WATER-LANDISH knowlege in it,-but 'tis all tritical, and 
[Page 48]
most tritically put together. This is but a flimsy kind of composition; what was in my head when I made it? 
-N. B. The excellency of this text is, that it will suit any sermon,-and of this sermon,-that it will suit any text.- 
-For this sermon I shall be hanged, -for I have stolen the greatest part of it. Doctor Paidagunes found me out. ? Set a thief to catch a thief.- 
On the back of half a dozen I find written, So, so, and no more-and upon a couple Moderato; by which, as far as one may gather from Altieri's Italian dictionary,-but mostly from the authority of a piece of green whipcord, which seemed to have been the unravelling 
[Page 49]
of Yorick's whip-lash, with which he has left us the two sermons marked Moderato, and the half dozen of So, so, tied fast together in one bundle by themselves, -one may safely suppose he meant pretty near the same thing. 
There is but one difficulty in the way of this conjecture, which is this, that the moderato's are five times better than the so, so's;-shew ten times more knowlege of the human heart;-have seventy times more wit and spirit in them;- (and, to rise properly in my climax)- discover a thousand times more genius; -and to crown all, are infinitely more entertaining than those tied up with them; -for which reason, whene'er Yorick's dramatick sermons are offered to the world, though I shall admit but one out of the whole number of the so, so's, I shall, 
[Page 50]
nevertheless, adventure to print the two moderato's without any sort of scruple. 
What Yorick could mean by the words lentamente,-tenutè,-grave,-and sometimes adagio,-as applied to theological compositions, and with which he has characterized some of these sermons, I dare not venture to guess. -I am more puzzled still upon finding a l'octava alta! upon one;-Con strepito upon the back of another;-Scicilliana upon a third; -Alla capella upon a fourth;- Con l'arco upon this;-Senza l'arco upon that. -All I know is, that they are musical terms, and have a meaning; -and as he was a musical man, I will make no doubt, but that by some quaint application of such metaphors to the compositions in hand, they impressed very distinct ideas of their several characters 
[Page 51]
upon his fancy,-whatever they may do upon that of others. 
Amongst these, there is that particular sermon which has unaccountably led me into this digression-The funeral sermon upon poor Le Fever, wrote out very fairly, as if from a hasty copy. -I take notice of it the more, because it seems to have been his favourite composition -It is upon mortality; and is tied length-ways and cross-ways with a yarn thrum, and then rolled up and twisted round with a half sheet of dirty blue paper, which seems to have been once the cast cover of a general review, which to this day smells horribly of horse-drugs. -Whether these marks of humiliation were designed,-I something doubt;-because at the end of the sermon, (and not at the beginning 
[Page 52]
of it)-very different from his way of treating the rest, he had wrote- 
Bravo!
-Though not very offensively, -for it is at two inches, at least, and a half's distance from, and below the concluding line of the sermon, at the very extremity of the page, and in that right hand corner of it, which, you know, is generally covered with your thumb; and, to do it justice, it is wrote besides with a crow's quill so faintly in a small Italian hand, as scarce to sollicit the eye towards the place, whether your thumb is there or not,-so that from the manner of it, it stands half excused; and being wrote moreover with very pale ink, diluted almost to nothing,-'tis more like a ritratto of the shadow of vanity, than of Vanity herself-of the two; resembling rather a faint thought 
[Page 53]
of transient applause, secretly stirring up in the heart of the composer, than a gross mark of it, coarsely obtruded upon the world. 
With all these extenuations, I am aware, that in publishing this, I do no service to Yorick's character as a modest man;-but all men have their failings! and what lessens this still farther, and almost wipes it away, is this; that the word was struck through sometime afterwards (as appears from a different tint of the ink) with a line quite across it in this manner, BRAVO-as if he had retracted, or was ashamed of the opinion he had once entertained of it. 
These short characters of his sermons were always written, excepting in this one instance, upon the first leaf of his 
[Page 54]
sermon, which served as a cover to it; and usually upon the inside of it, which was turned towards the text;-but at the end of his discourse, where, perhaps, he had five or six pages, and sometimes, perhaps, a whole score to turn himself in,-he took a larger circuit, and, indeed, a much more mettlesome one;- as if he had snatched the occasion of unlacing himself with a few more frolicksome strokes at vice, than the straitness of the pulpit allowed. -These, though hussar-like, they skirmish lightly and out of all order, are still auxiliaries on the side of virtue-; tell me then, Mynheer Vander Blonederdondergewdenstronke, why they should not be printed together? 

[Page 55]

CHAP. XII. 
When my uncle Toby had turned every thing into money, and settled all accounts betwixt the agent of the regiment and Le Fever, and betwixt Le Fever and all mankind,- there remained nothing more in my uncle Toby's hands, than an old regimental coat and a sword; so that my uncle Toby found little or no opposition from the world in taking administration. The coat my uncle Toby gave the corporal; -Wear it, Trim, said my uncle Toby, as long as it will hold together, for the sake of the poor lieutenant-And this,-said my uncle Toby, taking up the sword in his hand, and drawing it out of the scabbard as he spoke-and this, Le Fever, I'll save for thee,-'tis 
[Page 56]
all the fortune, continued my uncle Toby, hanging it up upon a crook, and pointing to it,-'tis all the fortune, my dear Le Fever, which God has left thee; but if he has given thee a heart to fight thy way with it in the world,-and thou doest it like a man of honour,-'tis enough for us. 
As soon as my uncle Toby had laid a foundation, and taught him to inscribe a regular polygon in a circle, he sent him to a public school, where, excepting Whitsontide and Christmas, at which times the corporal was punctually dispatched for him,-he remained to the spring of the year, seventeen; when the stories of the emperor's sending his army into Hungary against the Turks, kindling a spark of fire in his bosom, he left his Greek and Latin without leave, and 
[Page 57]
throwing himself upon his knees before my uncle Toby, begged his father's sword, and my uncle Toby's leave along with it, to go and try his fortune under Eugene. -Twice did my unce Toby forget his wound, and cry out, Le Fever! I will go with thee, and thou shalt fight beside me-And twice he laid his hand upon his groin, and hung down his head in sorrow and disconsolation.- 
My uncle Toby took down the sword from the crook, where it had hung untouched ever since the lieutenant's death, and delivered it to the corporal to brighten up;-and having detained Le Fever a single fortnight to equip him, and contract for his passage to Leghorn, -he put the sword into his hand,- If thou art brave, Le Fever, said my uncle Toby, this will not fail thee,- 
[Page 58]
but Fortune,(musing a little) -Fortune may-And if she does, --added my uncle Toby, embracing him, come back again to me, Le Fever, and we will shape thee another course. 
The greatest injury could not have oppressed the heart of Le Fever more than my uncle Toby's paternal kindness;- he parted from my uncle Toby, as the best of sons from the best of fathers- both dropped tears-and as my uncle Toby gave him his last kiss, he slipped sixty guineas, tied up in an old purse of his father's, in which was his mother's ring, into his hand,-and bid God bless him. 

[Page 59]

CHAP. XIII. 
Le Fever got up to the Imperial army just time enough to try what metal his sword was made of, at the defeat of the Turks before Belgrade; but a series of unmerited mischances had pursued him from that moment, and trod close upon his heels for four years together after: he had withstood these buffetings to the last, till sickness overtook him at Marseilles, from whence he wrote my uncle Toby word, he had lost his time, his services, his health, and in short, every thing but his sword;- and was waiting for the first ship to return back to him. 
As this letter came to hand about six weeks before Susannah's accident, Le 
[Page 60]
Fever was hourly expected; and was uppermost in my uncle Toby's mind all the time my father was giving him and Yorick a description of what kind of a person he would chuse for a preceptor to me: but as my uncle Toby thought my father at first somewhat fanciful in the accomplishments he required, he forbore mentioning Le Fever's name, -till the character, by Yorick's interposition, ending unexpectedly, in one, who should be gentle tempered, and generous, and good, it impressed the image of Le Fever, and his interest upon my uncle Toby so forceably, he rose instantly off his chair; and laying down his pipe, in order to take hold of both my father's hands-I beg, brother Shandy, said my uncle Toby, I may recommend poor Le Fever's son to you-I beseech you, do, added Yorick-He has a good 
[Page 61]
heart, said my uncle Toby-And a brave one too, an' please your honour, said the corporal. 
-The best hearts, Trim, are ever the bravest, replied my uncle Toby. -And the greatest cowards, an' please your honour, in our regiment, were the greatest rascals in it. -There was serjeant Kumbur, and ensign- 
-We'll talk of them, said my father, another time. 
CHAP. XIV. 
What a jovial and a merry world would this be, may it please your worships, but for that inextricable labyrinth of debts, cares, woes, want, grief, 
[Page 62]
discontent, melancholy, large jointures, impositions, and lies! 
Doctor Slop, like a son of a w---, as my father called him for it,-to exalt himself,-debased me to death,-and made ten thousand times more of Susannah's accident, than there was any grounds for; so that in a week's time, or less, it was in every body's mouth, That poor Master Shandy * * * * * * * * * * * * entirely. - And Fame, who loves to double every thing,-in three days more, had sworn positively she saw it,-and all the world, as usual, gave credit to her evidence- "That the nursery window had not only * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * ;-but that * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *'s also.""I'll go afoot, Sir, all the days of my life, before I would ride a single mile upon your back again.""How many parts of it-the one,-and 
[Page 141]
how many the other;""????!""????????????????????????""ad putorem usque,""-My brother Toby, quoth she, is going to be married to Mrs. Wadman.""-There must certainly be some mistake in this matter,""-Did ever so grave a personage get into so vile a scrape?""Now before I quit Calais,""it would not be amiss to give some account of it.""the most haste, the worst speed;""Make them like unto a wheel,""I wish them no worse luck than always to be rolling about""???????????????????????????????????????????????????""getting out of the body, in order to think well.""So hating, I say, to make mysteries of nothing""Now I shall have nothing to do""but to drop this gently into the post-boy's hat, and not say a word.""what they would be at""That they who have seen Paris, have seen every thing,""God bless you, dear sisters.""Come-come, thirsty muleteer-come in.""here I am""get on""'Tis an archiepiscopal see.""for so much the sooner shall I be at the Tomb of the two lovers.""I thought this shrine (neglected as it was) as valuable as that of Mecca, and so little short, except in wealth, of the Santa Casa itself, that some time or other, I would go a pilgrimage (though I had no other business at Lyons) on purpose to pay it a visit.""Don't thrash me with it-but if you will, you may""my remarks were stolen""Avignion is more subject to high winds than any town in all France:""I have followed many a man thro' France, quoth he-but never at this mettlesome rate""the duce take that slit!""It is with Love as with Cuckoldom""That a rill of cold water dribbling through my inward parts, should light up a torch in my Jenny's-""And in perfect good health with it?""And drink nothing!-nothing but water?""That she was a perfect woman;""Not touch it for the world""You can scarce,""combine two ideas together upon it, brother Toby, without an hypallage"- What's that? cried my uncle Toby.

The cart before the horse, replied my father- 
-And what has he to do there? cried my uncle Toby- 
Nothing, quoth my father, but to get in-or let it alone. 
Now widow Wadman, as I told you before, would do neither the one or the other. 

[Page 38]
She stood however ready harnessed and caparisoned at all points to watch accidents. 
CHAP. XIV. 
The Fates, who certainly all foreknew of these amours of widow Wadman and my uncle Toby, had, from the first creation of matter and motion (and with more courtesy than they usually do things of this kind) established such a chain of causes and effects hanging so fast to one another, that it was scarce possible for my uncle Toby to have dwelt in any other house in the world, or to have occupied any other garden in Christendom, but the very house and garden which join'd and 
[Page 39]
laid parallel to Mrs. Wadman's; this, with the advantage of a thickset arbour in Mrs. Wadman's garden, but planted in the hedge-row of my uncle Toby's, put all the occasions into her hands which Love-militancy wanted; she could observe my uncle Toby's motions, and was mistress likewise of his councils of war; and as his unsuspecting heart had given leave to the corporal, through the mediation of Bridget, to make her a wicker gate of communication to enlarge her walks, it enabled her to carry on her approaches to the very door of the sentry-box; and sometimes out of gratitude, to make the attack, and endeavour to blow my uncle Toby up in the very sentry-box itself. 

[Page 40]

CHAP. XV. 
It is a great pity-but 'tis certain from every day's observation of man, that he may be set on fire like a candle, at either end-provided there is a sufficient wick standing out; if there is not --there's an end of the affair; and if there is-by lighting it at the bottom, as the flame in that case has the misfortune generally to put out itself-there's an end of the affair again. 
For my part, could I always have the ordering of it which way I would be burnt myself-for I cannot bear the thoughts of being burnt like a beast- I would oblige a housewife constantly to 
[Page 41]
light me at the top; for then I should burn down decently to the socket; that is, from my head to my heart, from my heart to my liver, from my liver to my bowels, and so on by the meseraick veins and arteries, through all the turns and lateral insertions of the intestines and their tunicles, to the blind gut- 
-I beseech you, doctor Slop, quoth my uncle Toby, interrupting him as he mentioned the blind gut, in a discourse with my father the night my mother was brought to bed of me-I beseech you, quoth my uncle Toby, to tell me which is the blind gut; for, old as I am, I vow I do not know to this day where it lies. 

[Page 42]
The blind gut, answered doctor Slop, lies betwixt the Illion and Colon- 
-In a man? said my father. 
-'Tis precisely the same, cried doctor Slop, in a woman- 
That's more than I know; quoth my father. 

[Page 43]

CHAP. XVI. 
-And so to make sure of both systems, Mrs. Wadman predetermined to light my uncle Toby neither at this end or that; but like a prodigal's candle, to light him, if possible, at both ends at once. 
Now, through all the lumber rooms of military furniture, including both of horse and foot, from the great arsenal of Venice to the Tower of London (exclusive) if Mrs. Wadman had been rummaging for seven years together, and with Bridget to help her, she could not have found any one blind or mantelet so fit for her purpose, as that which 
[Page 44]
the expediency of my uncle Toby's affairs had fix'd up ready to her hands. 
I believe I have not told you-but I don't know-possibly I have-be it as it will, 'tis one of the number of those many things, which a man had better do over again, than dispute about it-That whatever town or fortress the corporal was at work upon, during the course of their campaign, my uncle Toby always took care on the inside of his sentry-box, which was towards his left hand, to have a plan of the place, fasten'd up with two or three pins at the top, but loose at the bottom, for the conveniency of holding it up to the eye, &c.... as occasions required; so that when an attack was resolved upon, Mrs. Wadman had nothing more to do, when she had 
[Page 45]
got advanced to the door of the sentry-box, but to extend her right hand; and edging in her left foot at the same movement, to take hold of the map or plan, or upright, or whatever it was, and with outstretched neck meeting it half way, -to advance it towards her; on which my uncle Toby's passions were sure to catch fire-for he would instantly take hold of the other corner of the map in his left hand, and with the end of his pipe, in the other, begin an explanation. 
When the attack was advanced to this point;-the world will naturally enter into the reasons of Mrs. Wadman's next stroke of generalship-which was, to take my uncle Toby's tobacco-pipe out of his hand as soon as she possibly could; 
[Page 46]
which, under one pretence or other, but generally that of pointing more distinctly at some redoubt or breast-work in the map, she would effect before my uncle Toby (poor soul!) had well march'd above half a dozen toises with it. 
-It obliged my uncle Toby to make use of his forefinger. 
The difference it made in the attack was this; That in going upon it, as in the first case, with the end of her forefinger against the end of my uncle Toby's tobacco-pipe, she might have travelled with it, along the lines, from Dan to Beersheba, had my uncle Toby's lines reach'd so far, without any effect: For as there was no arterial or vital heat in the end of the tobacco-pipe, it could excite no sentiment 
[Page 47]
-it could neither give fire by pulsation-or receive it by sympathy -'twas nothing but smoak. 
Whereas, in following my uncle Toby's forefinger with hers, close thro' all the little turns and indentings of his works-pressing sometimes against the side of it-then treading upon it's nail-then tripping it up-then touching it here-then there, and so on-it set something at least in motion. 
This, tho' slight skirmishing, and at a distance from the main body, yet drew on the rest; for here, the map usually falling with the back of it, close to the side of the sentry-box, my uncle Toby, in the simplicity of his soul, would lay his 
[Page 48]
hand flat upon it, in order to go on with his explanation; and Mrs. Wadman, by a manoeuvre as quick as thought, would as certainly place her's close besides it; this at once opened a communication, large enough for any sentiment to pass or repass, which a person skill'd in the elementary and practical part of lovemaking, has occasion for- 
By bringing up her forefinger parallel (as before) to my uncle Toby's-it unavoidably brought the thumb into action-and the forefinger and thumb being once engaged, as naturally brought in the whole hand. Thine, dear uncle Toby! was never now in it's right place -Mrs. Wadman had it ever to take up, or, with the gentlest pushings, protrusions, and equivocal compressions, 
[Page 49]
that a hand to be removed is capable of receiving-to get it press'd a hair breadth of one side out of her way. 
Whilst this was doing, how could she forget to make him sensible, that it was her leg (and no one's else) at the bottom of the sentry-box, which slightly press'd against the calf of his-So that my uncle Toby being thus attacked and sore push'd on both his wings-was it a wonder, if now and then, it put his centre into disorder?- 
-The duce take it! said my uncle Toby. 

[Page 50]

CHAP. XVII. 
These attacks of Mrs. Wadman, you will readily conceive to be of different kinds; varying from each other, like the attacks which history is full of, and from the same reasons. A general looker on, would scarce allow them to be attacks at all-or if he did, would confound them all together-but I write not to them: it will be time enough to be a little more exact in my descriptions of them, as I come up to them, which will not be for some chapters; having nothing more to add in this, but that in a bundle of original papers and drawings which my father took care to roll up by themselves, there is a plan of 
[Page 51]
Bouchain in perfect preservation (and shall be kept so, whilst I have power to preserve any thing) upon the lower corner of which, on the right hand side, there is still remaining the marks of a snuffy finger and thumb, which there is all the reason in the world to imagine, were Mrs. Wadman's; for the opposite side of the margin, which I suppose to have been my uncle Toby's, is absolutely clean: This seems an authenticated record of one of these attacks; for there are vestigia of the two punctures partly grown up, but still visible on the opposite corner of the map, which are unquestionably the very holes, through which it has been pricked up in the sentry-box- 
By all that is priestly! I value this precious relick, with it's stigmata and 
[Page 52]
pricks, more than all the relicks of the Romish church-always excepting, when I am writing upon these matters, the pricks which enter'd the flesh of St. Radagunda in the desert, which in your road from Fesse to Cluny, the nuns of that name will shew you for love. 
CHAP. XVIII. 
I Think, an' please your honour, quoth Trim, the fortifications are quite destroyed -and the bason is upon a level with the mole-I think so too; replied my uncle Toby with a sigh half suppress'd -but step into the parlour, Trim, for the stipulation-it lies upon the table. 

[Page 53]
It has lain there these six weeks, replied the corporal, till this very morning that the old woman kindled the fire with it- 
-Then, said my uncle Toby, there is no further occasion for our services. The more, an' please your honour, the pity, said the corporal; in uttering which he cast his spade into the wheel-barrow, which was beside him, with an air the most expressive of disconsolation that can be imagined, and was heavily turning about to look for his pick-ax, his pioneer's shovel, his picquets and other little military stores, in order to carry them off the field-when a heigh ho! from the sentry-box, which, being made of thin slit deal, reverberated the sound more sorrowfully to his ear, forbad him. 

[Page 54]
-No; said the corporal to himself, I'll do it before his honour rises to-morrow morning; so taking his spade out of the wheel-barrow again, with a little earth in it, as if to level something at the foot of the glacis-but with a real intent to approach nearer to his master, in order to divert him-he loosen'd a sod or two-pared their edges with his spade, and having given them a gentle blow or two with the back of it, he sat himself down close by my uncle Toby's feet, and began as follows. 

[Page 55]

CHAP. XIX. 
It was a thousand pities-though I believe, an' please your honour, I am going to say but a foolish kind of a thing for a soldier- 
A soldier,interrupting the corporal, is no more exempt from saying a foolish thing, Trim, than a man of letters -But not so often; and please your honour, replied the corporal -My uncle Toby gave a nod. 
It was a thousand pities then, said the corporal, casting his eye upon Dunkirk, and the mole, as Servius Sulpicius, in returning out of Asia (when he sailed from 
[Page 56]
Ægina towards Megara) did upon Corinth and Pyreus- 
-"It was a thousand pities, an' please your honour, to destroy these works- and a thousand pities to have let them stood."- 
-Thou art right, Trim, in both cases: said my uncle Toby -This, continued the corporal, is the reason, that from the beginning of their demolition to the end-I have never once whistled, or sung, or laugh'd, or cry'd, or talk'd of pass'd done deeds, or told your honour one story good or bad- 
-Thou hast many excellencies, Trim, said my uncle Toby, and I hold it not the least of them, as thou happenest 
[Page 57]
to be a story-teller, that of the number thou hast told me, either to amuse me in my painful hours, or divert me in my grave ones-thou hast seldom told me a bad one- 
- an' please your honour, except one of a King of Bohemia and his seven castles,-they are all true; for they are about myself- 
I do not like the subject the worse, Trim, said my uncle Toby, on that score: But prithee what is this story? thou hast excited my curiosity. 
I'll tell it your honour, quoth the corporal directly-Provided, said my uncle Toby, looking earnestly towards Dunkirk and the mole again-provided it 
[Page 58]
is not a merry one; to such, Trim, a man should ever bring one half of the entertainment along with him; and the disposition I am in at present would wrong both thee, Trim, and thy story -It is not a merry one by any means, replied the corporal -Nor would I have it altogether a grave one, added my uncle Toby -It is neither the one nor the other, replied the corporal, but will suit your honour exactly -Then I'll thank thee for it with all my heart,so prithee begin it, Trim. 
The corporal made his reverence; and though it is not so easy a matter as the world imagines, to pull off a lank montero cap with grace-or a whitless difficult, in my conceptions, when a man is sitting squat upon the ground, to make 
[Page 59]
a bow so teeming with respect as the corporal was wont, yet by suffering the palm of his right hand, which was towards his master, to slip backward upon the grass, a little beyond his body, in order to allow it the greater sweep-and by an unforced compression, at the same time, of his cap with the thumb and the two forefingers of his left, by which the diameter of the cap became reduced, so that it might be said, rather to be insensibly squeez'd-than pull'd off with a flatus -the corporal acquitted himself of both, in a better manner than the posture of his affairs promised; and having hemmed twice, to find in what key his story would best go, and best suit his master's humour-he exchanged a single look of kindness with him, and set off thus. 

[Page 60]

The Story of the king of Bohemia and his seven castles. 
There was a certain king of Bo-- he- 
As the corporal was entering the confines of Bohemia, my uncle Toby obliged him to halt for a single moment; he had set out bare-headed, having since he pull'd off his Montero-cap in the latter end of the last chapter, left it lying beside him on the ground. 
-The eye of Goodness espieth all things-so that before the corporal had well got through the first five words 
[Page 61]
of his story, had my uncle Toby twice touch'd his Montero-cap with the end of his cane, interrogatively-as much as to say, Why don't you put it on, Trim? Trim took it up with the most respectful slowness, and casting a glance of humiliation as he did it, upon the embroidery of the fore-part, which being dismally tarnish'd and fray'd moreover in some of the principal leaves and boldest parts of the pattern, he lay'd it down again betwixt his two feet, in order to moralize upon the subject. 
-'Tis every word of it but too true,that thou art about to observe- 

[Page 62]
"Nothing in this world, Trim, is made to last for ever." 
-But when tokens, dear Tom, of thy love and remembrance wear out, said Trim, what shall we say? 
There is no occasion, Trim, quoth my uncle Toby, to say any thing else; and was a man to puzzle his brains till Doom's day, I believe, Trim, it would be impossible. 
The corporal perceiving my uncle Toby was in the right, and that it would be in vain for the wit of man to think of extracting a purer moral from his cap, without further attempting it, he put it on; and passing his hand across his forehead 
[Page 63]
to rub out a pensive wrinkle, which the text and the doctrine between them had engender'd, he return'd, with the same look and tone of voice, to his story of the king of Bohemia and his seven castles. 

[Page 64]

The story of the king of Bohemia and his seven castles, continued. 
There was a certain king of Bohemia, but in whose reign, except his own, I am not able to inform your honour- 
I do not desire it of thee, Trim, by any means, cried my uncle Toby. 
-It was a little before the time, an' please your honour, when giants were beginning to leave off breeding;- but in what year of our Lord that was- 

[Page 65]
-I would not give a half-penny to know, said my uncle Toby. 
-Only, an' please your honour, it makes a story look the better in the face- 
-'Tis thy own, Trim, so ornament it after thy own fashion; and take any date, continued my uncle Toby, looking pleasantly upon him-take any date in the whole world thou choosest, and put it to-thou art heartily welcome- 
The corporal bowed; for of every century, and of every year of that century, from the first creation of the world down to Noah's flood; and from Noah's 
[Page 66]
flood to the birth of Abraham; through all the pilgrimages of the patriarchs, to the departure of the Israelites out of Egypt-and throughout all the Dynasties, Olympiads, Urbecondita's, and other memorable epochas of the different nations of the world, down to the coming of Christ, and from thence to the very moment in which the corporal was telling his story-had my uncle Toby subjected this vast empire of time and all its abysses at his feet; but as modesty scarce touches with a finger what liberality offers her with both hands open-the corporal contented himself with the very worst year of the whole bunch; which, to prevent your honours of the Majority and Minority from tearing the very flesh off your bones 
[Page 67]
in contestation, 'Whether that year is not always the last cast-year of the last cast-almanack' -I tell you plainly it was; but from a different reason than you wot of- 
-It was the year next him- which being the year of our Lord seventeen hundred and twelve, when the duke of Ormond was playing the devil in Flanders-the corporal took it, and set out with it afresh on his expedition to Bohemia. 

[Page 68]

The story of the king of Bohemia and his seven castles, continued. 
In the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and twelve, there was, an' please your honour- 
-To tell thee truly, Trim, quoth my uncle Toby, any other date would have pleased me much better, not only on account of the sad stain upon our history that year, in marching off our troops, and refusing to cover the siege of Quesnoi, though Fagel was carrying on the works with such incredible vigour- but likewise on the score, Trim, of thy own story; because if there are-and which, from what thou hast dropt, I 
[Page 69]
partly suspect to be the fact-if there are giants in it- 
There is but one, an' please your honour - 
-'Tis as bad as twenty, replied my uncle Toby-thou should'st have carried him back some seven or eight hundred years out of harm's way, both of criticks and other people; and therefore I would advise thee, if ever thou tellest it again- 
-If I live, an' please your honour, but once to get through it, I will never tell it again, quoth Trim, either to man, woman, or child-Poo-poo! said my uncle Toby-but with accents of such sweet encouragement did he 
[Page 70]
utter it, that the corporal went on with his story with more alacrity than ever. 
The story of the king of Bohemia and his seven castles, continued. 
There was, an' please your honour, said the corporal, raising his voice and rubbing the palms of his two hands cheerily together as he begun, a certain king of Bohemia- 
-Leave out the date entirely, Trim, quoth my uncle Toby, leaning forwards, and laying his hand gently upon the corporal's shoulder to temper the interruption-leave it out entirely, Trim; a story passes very well without these niceties, unless one is pretty sure 
[Page 71]
of 'em-Sure of 'em! said the corporal, shaking his head- 
Right; answered my uncle Toby, it is not easy, Trim, for one, bred up as thou and I have been to arms, who seldom looks further forward than to the end of his musket, or backwards beyond his knapsack, to know much about this matter-God bless your honour! said the corporal, won by the manner of my uncle Toby's reasoning, as much as by the reasoning itself, he has something else to do; if not on action, or a march, or upon duty in his garrison-he has his firelock, an' please your honour, to furbish-his accoutrements to take care of-his regimentals to mend-himself to shave and keep clean, so as to appear always 
[Page 72]
like what he is upon the parade; what business, added the corporal triumphantly, has a soldier, an' please your honour, to know any thing at all of geography? 
-Thou would'st have said chronology, Trim, said my uncle Toby; for as for geography, 'tis of absolute use to him; he must be acquainted intimately with every country and its boundaries where his profession carries him; he should know every town and city, and village and hamlet, with the canals, the roads, and hollow ways which lead up to them; there is not a river or a rivulet he passes, Trim, but he should be able at first sight to tell thee what is its name-in what mountains it takes its 
[Page 73]
rise-what is its course-how far it is navigable -where fordable-where not; he should know the fertility of every valley, as well as the hind who ploughs it; and be able to describe, or, if it is required, to give thee an exact map of all the plains and defiles, the forts, the acclivities, the woods and morasses, thro' and by which his army is to march; he should know their produce, their plants, their minerals, their waters, their animals, their seasons, their climates, their heats and cold, their inhabitants, their customs, their language, their policy, and even their religion. 
Is it else to be conceived, corporal, continued my uncle Toby, rising up in his sentry-box, as he began to warm in this 
[Page 74]
part of his discourse-how Marlborough could have marched his army from the banks of the Maes to Belburg; from Belburg to Kerpenord- (here the corporal could sit no longer) from Kerpenord, Trim, to Kalsaken; from Kalsaken to Newdorf; from Newdorf to Landenbourg; from Landenbourg to Mildenheim; from Mildenheim to Elchingen; from Elchingen to Gingen; from Gingen to Balmerchoffen; from Balmerchoffen to Skellenburg, where he broke in upon the enemy's works; forced his passage over the Danube; cross'd the Lech-pushed on his troops into the heart of the empire, marching at the head of them through Friburg, Hokenwert, and Schonevelt, to the plains of Blenheim and Hochstet? -Great as he was, corporal, he could 
[Page 75]
not have advanced a step, or made one single day's march without the aids of Geography -As for Chronology, I own, Trim, continued my uncle Toby, sitting down again coolly in his sentry-box, that of all others, it seems a science which the soldier might best spare, was it not for the lights which that science must one day give him, in determining the invention of powder; the furious execution of which, renversing every thing like thunder before it, has become a new æra to us of military improvements, changing so totally the nature of attacks and defences both by sea and land, and awakening so much art and skill in doing it, that the world cannot be too exact in ascertaining the precise time of its discovery, or too inquisitive, in knowing what great man 
[Page 76]
was the discoverer, and what occasions gave birth to it. 
I am far from controverting, continued my uncle Toby, what historians agree in, that in the year of our Lord 1380, under the reign of Wencelaus, son of Charles the fourth- a certain priest, whose name was Schwartz, shew'd the use of powder to the Venetians, in their wars against the Genoese; but 'tis certain he was not the first; because if we are to believe Don Pedro the bishop of Leon-How came priests and bishops, an' please your honour, to trouble their heads so much about gun-powder? God knows, said my uncle Toby-his providence brings good out of every thing -and he avers, in his chronicle of King Alphonsus, who reduced Toledo, That 
[Page 77]
in the year 1343, which was full thirty seven years before that time, the secret of powder was well known, and employed with success, both by Moors and Christians, not only in their sea-combats, at that period, but in many of their most memorable sieges in Spain and Barbary- And all the world knows, that Friar Bacon had wrote expressly about it, and had generously given the world a receipt to make it by, above a hundred and fifty years before even Schwartz was born - And that the Chinese, added my uncle Toby, embarass us, and all accounts of it still more, by boasting of the invention some hundreds of years even before him- 
-They are a pack of liars, I believe, cried Trim- 

[Page 78]
-They are some how or other deceived, said my uncle Toby, in this matter, as is plain to me from the present miserable state of military architecture amongst them; which consists of nothing more than a fossè with a brick wall without flanks-and for what they give us as a bastion at each angle of it, 'tis so barbarously constructed, that it looks for all the world --Like one of my seven castles, an' please your honour, quoth Trim. 
My uncle Toby, tho' in the utmost distress for a comparison, most courteously refused Trim's offer-till Trim telling him, he had half a dozen more in Bohemia, which he knew not how to get off his hands-my uncle Toby was so 
[Page 79]
touch'd with the pleasantry of heart of the corporal-that he discontinued his dissertation upon gunpowder-and begged the corporal forthwith to go on with his story of the King of Bohemia and his seven castles. 
The story of the King of Bohemia and his seven castles, continued. 
This unfortunate King of Bohemia, said Trim -Was he unfortunate then?for he had been so wrapt up in his dissertation upon gun powder and other military affairs, that tho' he had desired the corporal to go on, yet the many interruptions he had given, dwelt not so strong upon his fancy, as to account for the 
[Page 80]
epithet -Was he unfortunate then, Trim? said my uncle Toby, pathetically -The corporal, wishing first the word and all its synonimas at the devil, forthwith began to run back in his mind, the principal events in the King of Bohemia's story; from every one of which, it appearing that he was the most fortunate man that ever existed in the world- it put the corporal to a stand: for not caring to retract his epithet-and less, to explain it-and least of all, to twist his tale (like men of lore) to serve a system -he looked up in my uncle Toby's face for assistance-but seeing it was the very thing, my uncle Toby sat in expectation of himself-after a hum and a haw, he went on- 

[Page 81]
The King of Bohemia, an' please your honour, replied the corporal, was unfortunate, as thus -That taking great pleasure and delight in navigation and all sort of sea-affairs-and there happening throughout the whole kingdom of Bohemia, to be no sea-port town whatever - 
How the duce should there-Trim? cried my uncle Toby; for Bohemia being totally inland, it could have happen'd no otherwise -It might; said Trim, if it had pleased God- 
My uncle Toby never spoke of the being and natural attributes of God, but with diffidence and hesitation- 

[Page 82]
-I believe not, replied my uncle Toby, after some pause-for being inland, as I said, and having Silesia and Moravia to the east; Lusatia and Upper Saxony to the north; Franconia to the west; and Bavaria to the south: Bohemia could not have been propell'd to the sea, without ceasing to be Bohemia-nor could the sea, on the other hand, have come up to Bohemia, without overflowing a great part of Germany, and destroying millions of unfortunate inhabitants who could make no defence against it -Scandalous! cried Trim -Which would bespeak, added my uncle Toby, mildly, such a want of compassion in him who is the father of it-that, I think, Trim-the thing could have happen'd no way. 

[Page 83]
The corporal made the bow of unfeigned conviction; and went on. 
Now the King of Bohemia with his queen and courtiers happening one fine summer's evening to walk out -Aye! there the word happening is right, Trim, cried my uncle Toby; for the King of Bohemia and his queen might have walk'd out, or let it alone;-'twas a matter of contingency, which might happen, or not, just as chance ordered it. 
King William was of an opinion, an' please your honour, quoth Trim, that every thing was predestined for us in this world; insomuch, that he would often say to his soldiers, that "every ball had it's billet." He was a great man, said my uncle Toby -And I believe, continued 
[Page 84]
Trim, to this day, that the shot which disabled me at the battle of Landen, was pointed at my knee for no other purpose, but to take me out of his service, and place me in your honour's, where I should be taken so much better care of in my old age -It shall never, Trim, be construed otherwise, said my uncle Toby. 
The heart, both of the master and the man, were alike subject to sudden over-flowings; -a short silence ensued. 
Besides, said the corporal, resuming the discourse-but in a gayer accent-if it had not been for that single shot, I had never, an' please your honour, been in love- 

[Page 85]
So, thou wast once in love, Trim! said my uncle Toby, smiling- 
Souse! replied the corporal-over head and ears! an' please your honour. Prithee when? where?-and how came it to pass? -I never heard one word of it before; quoth my uncle Toby: -I dare say, answered Trim, that every drummer and serjeant's son in the regiment knew of it -Its high time I should-said my uncle Toby. 
Your honour remembers with concern, said the corporal, the total rout and confusion of our camp and army at the affair of Landen; every one was left to shift for himself; and if it had not been for the regiments of Wyndham, Lumley, and Galway, which covered the retreat 
[Page 86]
over the bridge of Neerspeeken, the king himself could scarce have gain'd it-he was press'd hard, as your honour knows, on every side of him- 
Gallant mortal!caught up with enthusiasm-this moment, now that all is lost, I see him galloping across me, corporal, to the left, to bring up the remains of the English horse along with him to support the right, and tear the laurel from Luxembourg's brows, if yet 'tis possible -I see him with the knot of his scarfe just shot off, infusing fresh spirits into poor Galway's regiment-riding along the line-then wheeling about, and charging Conti at the head of it -Brave! brave by heaven! cried my uncle Toby-he deserves 
[Page 87]
a crown -As richly, as a thief a halter; shouted Trim. 
My uncle Toby knew the corporal's loyalty;-otherwise the comparison was not at all to his mind-it did not altogether strike the corporal's fancy when he had made it-but it could not be recall'd-so he had nothing to do, but proceed. 
As the number of wounded was prodigious, and no one had time to think of any thing, but his own safety -Though Talmash, said my uncle Toby, brought off the foot with great prudence - But I was left upon the field, said the corporal. Thou wast so; poor fellow! replied my uncle Toby -So that it was noon the next day, continued the corporal, 
[Page 88]
before I was exchanged, and put into a cart with thirteen or fourteen more, in order to be convey'd to our hospital. 
There is no part of the body, an' please your honour, where a wound occasions more intolerable anguish than upon the knee- 
Except the groin; said my uncle Toby. An' please your honour, replied the corporal, the knee, in my opinion, must certainly be the most acute, there being so many tendons and what-d'ye-call-'ems all about it. 
It is for that reason, quoth my uncle Toby, that the groin is infinitely more sensible-there being not only as many 
[Page 89]
tendons and what-d'ye-call-'ems (for I know their names as little as thou do'st)-about it-but moreover * * *- 
Mrs. Wadman, who had been all the time in her arbour-instantly stopp'd her breath-unpinn'd her mob at the chin, and stood up upon one leg- 
The dispute was maintained with amicable and equal force betwixt my uncle Toby and Trim for some time; till Trim at length recollecting that he had often cried at his master's sufferings, but never shed a tear at his own-was for giving up the point, which my uncle Toby would not allow --'Tis a proof of nothing, Trim,but the generosity of thy temper- 

[Page 90]
So that whether the pain of a wound in the groin (cæteris paribus) is greater than the pain of a wound in the knee-or 
Whether the pain of a wound in the knee is not greater than the pain of a wound in the groin-are points which to this day remain unsettled. 
CHAP. XX. 
The anguish of my knee, continued the corporal, was excessive in itself; and the uneasiness of the cart, with the roughness of the roads which were terribly cut up-making bad still worse-every step was death to me: so that with the loss of blood, and the 
[Page 91]
want of care-taking of me, and a fever I felt coming on besides-(Poor soul! said my uncle Toby) all together, an' please your honour, was more than I could sustain. 
I was telling my sufferings to a young woman at a peasant's house, where our cart, which was the last of the line, had halted; they had help'd me in, and the young woman had taken a cordial out of her pocket and dropp'd it upon some sugar, and seeing it had cheer'd me, she had given it me a second and a third time - So I was telling her, an' please your honour, the anguish I was in, and was saying it was so intolerable to me, that I had much rather lie down upon the bed, turning my face towards one which was in the corner of the room-and die, 
[Page 92]
than go on-when, upon her attempting to lead me to it, I fainted away in her arms. She was a good soul! as your honour, said the corporal, wiping his eyes, will hear. 
I thought love had been a joyous thing, quoth my uncle Toby. 
'Tis the most serious thing, an' please your honour (sometimes) that is in the world. 
By the persuasion of the young woman, continued the corporal, the cart with the wounded men set off without me: she had assured them I should expire immediately if I was put into the cart. So when I came to myself-I found myself in a still quiet cottage, with 
[Page 93]
no one but the young woman, and the peasant and his wife. I was laid across the bed in the corner of the room, with my wounded leg upon a chair, and the young woman beside me, holding the corner of her handkerchief dipp'd in vinegar to my nose with one hand, and rubbing my temples with the other. 
I took her at first for the daughter of the peasant (for it was no inn)-so had offer'd her a little purse with eighteen florins, which my poor brother Tom (here Trim wip'd his eyes) had sent me as a token, by a recruit, just before he set out for Lisbon- 
-I never told your honour that piteous story yet-here Trim wiped his eyes a third time. 

[Page 94]
The young woman call'd the old man and his wife into the room, to shew them the money, in order to gain me credit for a bed and what little necessaries I should want, till I should be in a condition to be got to the hospital -Come then!tying up the little purse-I'll be your banker-but as that office alone will not keep me employ'd, I'll be your nurse too. 
I thought by her manner of speaking this, as well as by her dress, which I then began to consider more attentively -that the young woman could not be the daughter of the peasant. 
She was in black down to her toes, with her hair conceal'd under a cambrick border, laid close to her forehead: she 
[Page 95]
was one of those kind of nuns, an' please your honour, of which, your honour knows, there are a good many in Flanders which they let go loose -By thy description, Trim, said my uncle Toby, I dare say she was a young Beguine, of which there are none to be found any where but in the Spanish Netherlands- except at Amsterdam-they differ from nuns in this, that they can quit their cloister if they choose to marry; they visit and take care of the sick by profession-I had rather, for my own part, they did it out of good-nature. 
-She often told me, quoth Trim, she did it for the love of Christ-I did not like it. -I believe, Trim, we are both wrong, said my uncle Toby-we'll 
[Page 96]
ask Mr. Yorick about it to-night at my brother Shandy's-so put me in mind; added my uncle Toby. 
The young Beguine, continued the corporal, had scarce given herself time to tell me "she would be my nurse,""It was not love""God bless me.""I would do a thousand times more,""for the love of Christ""How can you live comfortless, captain Shandy, and alone, without a bosom to lean your head on-or trust your cares to?""A Devil 'tis-and mischief such doth work 
""* 33 


[Page 118]
In short during the whole paroxism, my father was all abuse and foul language, approaching rather towards malediction -only he did not do it with as much method as Ernulphus-he was too impetuous; nor with Ernulphus's policy-for tho' my father, with the most intolerant spirit, would curse both this and that, and every thing under heaven, which was either aiding or abetting to his love-yet never concluded his chapter of curses upon it, without cursing himself in at the bargain, as one of the most egregious fools and coxcombs, he would say, that ever was let loose in the world. 
My uncle Toby, on the contrary, took it like a lamb-sat still and let the 
[Page 119]
poison work in his veins without resistance -in the sharpest exacerbations of his wound (like that on his groin) he never dropt one fretful or discontented word-he blamed neither heaven nor earth-or thought or spoke an injurious thing of any body, or any part of it; he sat solitary and pensive with his pipe-looking at his lame leg- then whiffing out a sentimental heigh ho! which mixing with the smoak, incommoded no one mortal. 
He took it like a lamb-I say. 
In truth he had mistook it at first; for having taken a ride with my father, that very morning, to save if possible a beautiful wood, which the dean and chapter 
[Page 120]
were hewing down to give to the poor* 34 ; which said wood being in full view of my uncle Toby's house, and of singular service to him in his description of the battle of Wynnendale-by trotting on too hastily to save it-upon an uneasy saddle-worse horse, &c. &c...it had so happened, that the serous part of the blood had got betwixt the two skins, in the nethermost part of my uncle Toby -the first shootings of which (as my uncle Toby had no experience of love) he had taken for a part of the passion- till the blister breaking in the one case- and the other remaining-my uncle Toby was presently convinced, that his 
[Page 121]
wound was not a skin-deep-wound- but that it had gone to his heart. 
CHAP. XXVII. 
The world is ashamed of being virtuous -My uncle Toby knew little of the world; and therefore when he felt  with widow Wadman, he had no conception that the thing was any more to be made a mystery of, than if Mrs. Wadman, had given him a cut with a gap'd knife across his finger: Had it been otherwise-yet as he ever look'd upon Trim as a humble friend; and saw fresh reasons every day of his life, to treat him as such-it would have made no variation in the manner in which he informed him of the affair. 

[Page 122]
"" quoth my uncle Toby. 
CHAP. XXVIII. 
In love!-said the corporal-your honour was very well the day before yesterday, when I was telling your honour the story of the King of Bohemia -Bohemia! said my uncle Toby - - - - musing a long time - - - What became of that story, Trim? 
-We lost it, an' please your honour, somehow betwixt us-but your honour was as free from love then, as I am- 'twas, just whilst thou went'st off with the wheel-barrow-with Mrs. Wadman, quoth my uncle Toby-She has left a 
[Page 123]
ball here-added my uncle Toby-pointing to his breast- 
-She can no more, an' please your honour, stand a siege, than she can fly- cried the corporal- 
-But as we are neighbours, Trim, -the best way I think is to let her know it civilly first-quoth my uncle Toby. 
Now if I might presume, said the corporal, to differ from your honour- 
-Why else, do I talk to thee Trim: said my uncle Toby, mildly- 
-Then I would begin, an' please your honour, with making a good thundering attack upon her, in return-and telling her civilly afterwards-for if she knows 
[Page 124]
any thing of your honour's being in love, before hand-L---d help her!-she knows no more at present of it, Trim, said my uncle Toby-than the child unborn- 
Precious souls!- 
Mrs. Wadman had told it with all its circumstances, to Mrs. Bridget twenty-four hours before; and was at that very moment sitting in council with her, touching some slight misgivings with regard to the issue of the affair, which the Devil, who never lies dead in a ditch, had put into her head-before he would allow half time, to get quietly through her, te Deum- 
I am terribly afraid, said widow Wadman, in case I should marry him, Bridget 
[Page 125]
-that the poor captain will not enjoy his health, with the monstrous wound upon his groin- 
It may not, Madam, be so very large, replied Bridget, as you think-and I believe besides, added she-that 'tis dried up- 
-I could like to know-merely for his sake, said Mrs. Wadman- 
-We'll know the long and the broad of it, in ten days-answered Mrs. Bridget, for whilst the captain is paying his addresses to you-I'm confident Mr. Trim will be for making love to me-and I'll let him as much as he will-added Bridget-to get it all out of him- 
The measures were taken at once- and my uncle Toby and the corporal went on with theirs. 

[Page 126]
Now, quoth the corporal, setting his left hand a kimbo, and giving such a flourish with his right, as just promised success-and no more-if your honour will give me leave to lay down the plan of this attack- 
-Thou wilt please me by it, Trim, said my uncle Toby, exceedingly-and as I foresee thou must act in it as my aid de camp, here's a crown, corporal, to begin with, to steep thy commission. 
Then, an' please your honour, said the corporal (making a bow first for his commission) -we will begin with getting your honour's laced cloaths out of the great campaign-trunk, to be well-air'd, and have the blue and gold taken up at the sleeves-and I'll put your white ramallie-wig 
[Page 127]
fresh into pipes-and send for a taylor, to have your honour's thin scarlet breeches turn'd- 
-I had better take the red plush ones, quoth my uncle Toby -They will be too clumsy-said the corporal. 
CHAP. XXIX. 
-Thou wilt get a brush and a little chalk to my sword --'Twill be only in your honour's way, replied Trim. 
CHAP. XXX. 
--But your honour's two razors shall be new set-and I will get my Montero cap furbish'd up, and put on poor lieutenant Le Fever's regimental coat, which your honour gave me to 
[Page 128]
wear for his sake-and as soon as your honour is clean shaved-and has got your clean shirt on, with your blue and gold, or your fine scarlet-sometimes one and sometimes t'other-and every thing is ready for the attack-we'll march up boldly, as if 'twas to the face of a bastion; and whilst your honour engages Mrs. Wadman in the parlour, to the right-I'll attack Mrs. Bridget in the kitchen, to the left; and having seiz'd that pass, I'll answer for it, said the corporal, snapping his fingers over his head -that the day is our own. 
I wish I may but manage it right; said my uncle Toby-but I declare, corporal I had rather march up to the very edge of a trench-- 

[Page 129]
-A woman is quite a different thing -said the corporal. 
-I suppose so, quoth my uncle Toby. 
CHAP. XXXI. 
If any thing in this world, which my father said, could have provoked my uncle Toby, during the time , it was the perverse use my father was always making of an expression of Hilarion the hermit; who, in speaking of his abstinence, his watchings, flagellations, and other instrumental parts of his religion-would say-tho' with more facetiousness than became an hermit - "" 

[Page 130]
It pleased my father well; it was not only a laconick way of expressing- but of libelling, at the same time, the desires and appetites of the lower part of us; so that for many years of my father's life, 'twas his constant mode of expression-he never used the word passions once-but ass always instead of them -So that he might be said truly, to have been upon the bones, or the back of his own ass, or else of some other man's, during all that time. 
I must here observe to you, the difference betwixt 
   My father's ass 
   and my hobby-horse-in order to keep characters as separate as may be, in our fancies as we go along. 

[Page 131]
For my hobby-horse, if you recollect a little, is no way a vicious beast; he has scarce one hair or lineament of the ass about him -'Tis the sporting little filly-folly which carries you out for the the present hour-a maggot, a butterfly, a picture, a fiddle-stick-an uncle Toby's siege-or an any thing, which a man makes a shift to get a stride on, to canter it away from the cares and solicitudes of life - 'Tis as useful a beast as is in the whole creation-nor do I really see how the world could do without it- 
-But for my father's ass-oh! mount him-mount him-mount him- (that's three times, is it not?)-mount him not:-'tis a beast concupiscent-and foul befall the man, who does not hinder him from kicking. 

[Page 132]

CHAP. XXXII. 
Well! dear brother Toby, said my father, upon his first seeing him after he fell in love-and how goes it with your Asse? 
Now my uncle Toby thinking more of the part where he had had the blister, than of Hilarion's metaphor-and our preconceptions having (you know) as great a power over the sounds of words as the shapes of things, he had imagined, that my father, who was not very ceremonious in his choice of words, had enquired after the part by its proper name; so notwithstanding my mother, doctor Slop, and Mr. Yorick, were sitting in the parlour, he thought it rather civil to 
[Page 133]
conform to the term my father had made use of than not. When a man is hemm'd in by two indecorums, and must commit one of 'em-I always observe- let him choose which he will, the world will blame him-so I should not be astonished if it blames my uncle Toby. 
My A---e, quoth my uncle Toby, is much better-brother Shandy-My father had formed great expectations from his Asse in this onset; and would have brought him on again; but doctor Slop setting up an intemperate laugh-and my mother crying out L--- bless us!-it drove my father's Asse off the field-and the laugh then becoming general-there was no bringing him back to the charge, for some time- 

[Page 134]
And so the discourse went on without him. 
Every body, said my mother, says you are in love, brother Toby-and we hope it is true. 
I am as much in love, sister, I believe, replied my uncle Toby, as any man usually is-Humph! said my father- and when did you know it? quoth my mother- 
-When the blister broke; replied my uncle Toby. 
My uncle Toby's reply put my father into good temper-so he charged o'foot. 

[Page 135]

CHAP. XXXIII. 
As the antients agree, brother Toby, said my father, that there are two different and distinct kinds of love, according to the different parts which are affected by it-the Brain or Liver-I think when a man is in love, it behoves him a little to consider which of the two he is fallen into. 
What signifies it, brother Shandy, replied my uncle Toby, which of the two it is, provided it will but make a man marry, and love his wife, and get a few children. 
-A few children! cried my father, rising out of his chair, and looking full 
[Page 136]
in my mother's face, as he forced his way betwixt her's and doctor Slop's-a few children! cried my father, repeating my uncle Toby's words as he walk'd to and fro'- 
-Not, my dear brother Toby, cried my father, recovering himself all at once, and coming close up to the back of my uncle Toby's chair-not that I should be sorry had'st thou a score-on the contrary I should rejoice--and be as kind, Toby, to every one of them as a father- 
My uncle Toby stole his hand unperceived behind his chair, to give my father's a squeeze- 
-Nay, moreover, continued he, keeping hold of my uncle Toby's hand -so much do'st thou possess, my dear 
[Page 137]
Toby, of the milk of human nature, and so little of its asperities-'tis piteous the world is not peopled by creatures which resemble thee; and was I an Asiatick monarch, added my father, heating himself with his new project-I would oblige thee, provided it would not impair thy strength-or dry up thy radical moisture too fast-or weaken thy memory or fancy, brother Toby, which these gymnicks inordinately taken, are apt to do- else, dear Toby, I would procure thee the most beautiful woman in my empire, and I would oblige thee, nolens, volens, to beget for me one subject every month- 
As my father pronounced the last word of the sentence-my mother took a pinch of snuff: 

[Page 138]
Now I would not, quoth my uncle Toby, get a child, nolens, volens, that is, whether I would or no, to please the greatest prince upon earth- 
-And 'twould be cruel in me, brother Toby, to compell thee; said my father-but 'tis a case put to shew thee, that it is not thy begetting a child -in case thou should'st be able-but the system of Love and marriage thou goest upon, which I would set thee right in- 
There is at least, said Yorick, a great deal of reason and plain sense in captain Shandy's opinion of love; and 'tis amongst the ill spent hours of my life which I have to answer for, that I have read so many flourishing poets and rhetoricians in my time, from whom I never could extract so much- 

[Page 139]
I wish, Yorick, said my father, you had read Plato; for there you would have learnt that there are two Loves- I know there were two Religions, replied Yorick, amongst the ancients- one-for the vulgar, and another for the learned; but I think one Love might have served both of them very well- 
It could not; replied my father-and for the same reasons: for of these Loves, according to Ficinus's comment upon Velasius, the one is rational- 
   -the other is natural- 
the first ancient-without mother- where Venus had nothing to do: the second, begotten of Jupiter and Dione- 
-Pray brother, quoth my uncle Toby, what has a man who believes in God to do with this? My father could 
[Page 140]
not stop to answer, for fear of breaking the thread of his discourse- 
This latter, continued he, partakes wholly of the nature of Venus. 
The first, which is the golden chain let down from heaven, excites to love heroic, which comprehends in it, and excites to the desire of philosophy and truth- the second, excites to desire, simply- 
-I think the procreation of children as beneficial to the world, said Yorick, as the finding out the longitude- 
-To be sure, said my mother, love keeps peace in the world- 
-In the house-my dear, I own- -It replenishes the earth; said my mother- 
But it keeps heaven empty-my dear; replied my father. 

[Page 141]
-'Tis Virginity, cried Slop, triumphantly, which fills paradise. 
Well push'd nun! quoth my father. 
CHAP. XXXIV. 
My father had such a skirmishing, cutting kind of a slashing way with him in his disputations, thrusting and ripping, and giving every one a stroke to remember him by in his turn- that if there were twenty people in company-in less than half an hour he was sure to have every one of 'em against him. 
What did not a little contribute to leave him thus without an ally, was, that if there was any one post more untenable than the rest, he would be sure to throw himself into it; and to do him justice, when he was once there, he would defend 
[Page 142]
it so gallantly, that 'twould have been a concern, either to a brave man, or a good-natured one, to have seen him driven out. 
Yorick, for this reason, though he would often attack him-yet could never bear to do it with all his force. 
Doctor Slop's Virginity, in the close of the last chapter, had got him for once on the right side of the rampart; and he was beginning to blow up all the convents in Christendom about Slop's ears, when corporal Trim came into the parlour to inform my uncle Toby, that his thin scarlet breeches, in which the attack was to be made upon Mrs. Wadman, would not do; for, that the taylor, in ripping them up, in order to turn them, had found they had been turn'd 
[Page 143]
before -Then turn them again, brother, said my father rapidly, for there will be many a turning of 'em yet before all's done in the affair -They are as rotten as dirt, said the corporal- Then by all means, said my father, bespeak a new pair, brother-for though I know, continued my father, turning himself to the company, that widow Wadman has been deeply in love with my brother Toby for many years, and has used every art and circumvention of woman to outwit him into the same passion, yet now that she has caught him-her fever will be pass'd it's height- 
-She has gain'd her point. 
In this case, continued my father, which Plato, I am persuaded, never 
[Page 144]
thought of-Love, you see, is not so much a Sentiment as a Situation, into which a man enters, as my brother Toby would do, into a corps-no matter whether he loves the service or no-being once in it-he acts as if he did; and takes every step to shew himself a man of prowesse. 
The hypothesis, like the rest of my father's, was plausible enough, and my uncle Toby had but a single word to object to it-in which Trim stood ready to second him-but my father had not drawn his conclusion- 
For this reason, continued my father (stating the case over again) notwithstanding all the world knows, that Mrs. 
[Page 145]
Wadman affects my brother Toby-and my brother Toby contrariwise affects Mrs. Wadman, and no obstacle in nature to forbid the music striking up this very night, yet will I answer for it, that this self-same tune will not be play'd this twelvemonth. 
We have taken our measures badly, quoth my uncle Toby, looking up interrogatively in Trim's face. 
I would lay my Montero cap, said Trim -Now Trim's Montero-cap, as I once told you, was his constant wager; and having furbish'd it up that very night, in order to go upon the attack- it made the odds look more considerable -I would lay, an' please your honour, my Montero-cap to a shilling- 
[Page 146]
was it proper, continued Trim (making a bow) to offer a wager before your honours- 
-There is nothing improper in it, said my father-'tis a mode of expression; for in saying thou would'st lay thy Montero-cap to a shilling-all thou meanest is this-that thou believest- 
-Now, What do'st thou believe? 
That Widow Wadman, an' please your worship, cannot hold it out ten days- 
And whence, cried Slop, jeeringly, hast thou all this knowledge of woman, friend? 
By falling in love with a popish clergy-woman; said Trim. 
'Twas a Beguine, said my uncle Toby. 

[Page 147]
Doctor Slop was too much in wrath to listen to the distinction; and my father taking that very crisis to fall in helter-skelter upon the whole order of Nuns and Beguines, a set of silly, fusty baggages -Slop could not stand it- and my uncle Toby having some measures to take about his breeches-and Yorick about his fourth general division -in order for their several attacks next day-the company broke up: and my father being left alone, and having half an hour upon his hands betwixt that and bed-time; he called for pen, ink, and paper, and wrote my uncle Toby the following letter of instructions. 

[Page 148]

My dear brother Toby, 
What I am going to say to thee, is upon the nature of women, and of love-making to them; and perhaps it is as well for thee-tho' not so well for me-that thou hast occasion for a letter of instructions upon that head, and that I am able to write it to thee. 
Had it been the good pleasure of him who disposes of our lots-and thou no sufferer by the knowledge, I had been well content that thou should'st have dipp'd the pen this moment into the ink, instead of myself; but that not being the case--Mrs. Shandy being now close besides me, preparing for bed- 
[Page 149]
I have thrown together without order, and just as they have come into my mind, such hints and documents as I deem may be of use to thee; intending, in this, to give thee a token of my love; not doubting, my dear Toby, of the manner in which it will be accepted. 
In the first place, with regard to all which concerns religion in the affair- though I perceive from a glow in my cheek, that I blush as I begin to speak to thee upon the subject, as well knowing, notwithstanding thy unaffected secrecy, how few of its offices thou neglectest -yet I would remind thee of one (during the continuance of thy courtship) in a particular manner, which I would not have omitted; and that is, never to go forth upon the enterprize, whether it be in the morning or the afternoon, without 
[Page 150]
first recommending thyself to the protection of Almighty God, that he may defend thee from the evil one. 
Shave the whole top of thy crown clean, once at least every four or five days, but oftner if convenient; lest in taking off thy wig before her, thro' absence of mind, she should be able to discover how much has been cut away by Time-how much by Trim. 
-'Twere better to keep ideas of baldness out of her fancy. 
Always carry it in thy mind, and act upon it, as a sure maxim, Toby- 
"" And 'tis well they are-else there would be no dealing with them. 

[Page 151]
Let not thy breeches be too tight, or hang too loose about thy thighs, like the trunk-hose of our ancestors. 
-A just medium prevents all conclusions. 
Whatever thou hast to say, be it more or less, forget not to utter it in a low soft tone of voice. Silence, and whatever approaches it, weaves dreams of midnight secrecy into the brain: For this cause, if thou canst help it, never throw down the tongs and poker. 
Avoid all kinds of pleasantry and facetiousness in thy discourse with her, and do whatever lies in thy power at the same time, to keep from her all books and writings which tend thereto: there are some devotional tracts, which if thou 
[Page 152]
canst entice her to read over-it will be well: but suffer her not to look into Rabelais, or Scarron, or Don Quixote- 
-They are all books which excite laughter; and thou knowest, dear Toby, that there is no passion so serious, as lust. 
Stick a pin in the bosom of thy shirt, before thou enterest her parlour. 
And if thou art permitted to sit upon the same sopha with her, and she gives thee occasion to lay thy hand upon hers-beware of taking it-thou can'st not lay thy hand on hers, but she will feel the temper of thine. Leave that and as many other things as thou canst, quite undetermined; by so doing, thou will have her curiosity on thy side; and if she is not conquer'd by that, and thy Asse 
[Page 153]
continues still kicking, which there is great reason to suppose -Thou must begin, with first losing a few ounces of blood below the ears, according to the practice of the ancient Scythians, who cured the most intemperate fits of the appetite by that means. 
Avicenna, after this, is for having the part anointed with the syrrup of hellebore, using proper evacuations and purges-and I believe rightly. But thou must eat little or no goat's flesh, nor red deer-nor even foal's flesh by any means; and carefully abstain- that is, as much as thou canst, from peacocks, cranes, coots, didappers, and water hens- 
As for thy drink-I need not tell thee, it must be the infusion of Vervain, and the herb Hanea, of which Ælian 
[Page 154]
relates such effects-but if thy stomach palls with it-discontinue it from time to time, taking cucumbers, melons, purslane, water-lillies, woodbine, and lettice, in the stead of them. 
There is nothing further for thee, which occurs to me at present- 
-Unless the breaking out of a fresh war -So wishing every thing, dear Toby, for the best, 
I rest thy affectionate brother, 
Walter Shandy. 
CHAP. XXXV. 
Whilst my father was writing his letter of instructions, my uncle Toby and the corporal were busy in preparing every thing for the attack. As the turning of the thin scarlet 
[Page 155]
breeches was laid aside (at least for the present) there was nothing which should put it off beyond the next morning; so accordingly it was resolv'd upon, for eleven o'clock. 
Come, my dear, said my father to my mother-'twill be but like a brother and sister, if you and I take a walk down to my brother Toby's-to countenance him in this attack of his. 
My uncle Toby and the corporal had been accoutred both some time, when my father and mother enter'd, and the clock striking eleven, were that moment in motion to sally forth-but the account of this is worth more, than to be wove into the fag end of the eighth volume of such a work as this. -My father had no time but to put the letter of instructions 
[Page 156]
into my uncle Toby's coatpocket-and join with my mother in wishing his attack prosperous. 
I could like, said my mother, to look through the key-hole out of curiosity- Call it by it's right name, my dear, quoth my father- 
And look through the key-hole as long as you will. 

End of the Eighth Volume.

Vol. 9 

[Page ]

Title Page 
THE LIFE and OPINIONS OF TRISTRAM SHANDY, Gent. VOL. IX.

[Page ]

[Blank page]


[Page ]

Title Page 
THE LIFE AND OPINIONS OF TRISTRAM SHANDY, Gentleman. 

Si quid urbaniusculè lusum a nobis, per Musas et Charitas et omnium poetarum Numina, Oro te, ne me malè capias. 
VOL. IX.
LONDON: Printed for T. Becket and P. A. Dehondt, in the Strand. MDCCLXVII.


[Page ]

[Blank page]


[Page ]

A DEDICATION TO A GREAT MAN. 
Having, a priori, intended to dedicate The Amours of my uncle Toby to Mr. ***-I see more reasons, a posteriori, for doing it to Lord *******. 
I should lament from my soul, if this exposed me to the jealousy of their Reverences; because, a posteriori, 
[Page ]
in Court-latin, signifies, the kissing hands for preferment-or any thing else-in order to get it. 
My opinion of Lord ******* is neither better nor worse, than it was of Mr. ***. Honours, like impressions upon coin, may give an ideal and local value to a bit of base metal; but Gold and Silver will pass all the world over without any other recommendation than their own weight. 
The same good will that made me think of offering up half an hour's amusement to Mr. *** when out of place-operates more forcibly at 
[Page ]
present, as half an hour's amusement will be more serviceable and refreshing after labour and sorrow, than after a philosophical repast. 
Nothing is so perfectly Amusement as a total change of ideas; no ideas are so totally different as those of Ministers, and innocent Lovers: for which reason, when I come to talk of Statesmen and Patriots, and set such marks upon them as will prevent confusion and mistakes concerning them for the future-I propose to dedicate that Volume to some gentle Shepherd, 


Whose Thoughts proud Science never taught to stray, 
Far as the Statesman's walk or Patriot-way; 
[Page ]

Yet simple Nature to his hopes had given 
Out of a cloud-capp'd head a humbler heaven; 
Some untam'd World in depth of woods embraced- 
Some happier Island in the watry-waste- 
And where admitted to that equal sky, 
His faithful Dogs should bear him company.
In a word, by thus introducing an entire new set of objects to his Imagination, I shall unavoidably give a Diversion to his passionate and love-sick Contemplations. In the mean time, 
I am 
The AUTHOR. 

[Page 1]
THE LIFE and OPINIONS OF TRISTRAM SHANDY, Gent.
CHAP. I. 
I call all the powers of time and chance, which severally check us in our careers in this world, to bear me witness, that I could never yet get fairly to my uncle Toby's amours, till this very moment, that my mother's curiosity, 
[Page 2]
as she stated the affair,--or a different impulse in her, as my father would have it-wished her to take a peep at them through the key-hole. 
"" 
Nothing but the fermentation of that little subacid humour, which I have often spoken of, in my father's habit, could have vented such an insinuation-he was however frank and generous in his nature, and at all times open to conviction; so that he had scarce got to the last word of this ungracious retort, when his conscience smote him. 

[Page 3]
My mother was then conjugally swinging with her left arm twisted under his right, in such wise, that the inside of her hand rested upon the back of his- she raised her fingers, and let them fall- it could scarce be call'd a tap; or if it was a tap-'twould have puzzled a casuist to say, whether 'twas a tap of remonstrance, or a tap of confession: my father, who was all sensibilities from head to foot, class'd it right-Conscience redoubled her blow-he turn'd his face suddenly the other way, and my mother supposing his body was about to turn with it in order to move homewards, by a cross movement of her right leg, keeping her left as its centre, brought herself so far in front, that as he turned 
[Page 4]
his head, he met her eye-Confusion again! he saw a thousand reasons to wipe out the reproach, and as many to reproach himself-a thin, blue, chill, pellucid chrystal with all its humours so at rest, the least mote or speck of desire might have been seen at the bottom of it, had it existed-it did not--and how I happen to be so lewd myself, particularly a little before the vernal and autumnal equinoxes-Heaven above knows-My mother-madam -was so at no time, either by nature, by institution, or example. 
A temperate current of blood ran orderly through her veins in all months of the year, and in all critical moments both 
[Page 5]
of the day and night alike; nor did she superinduce the least heat into her humours from the manual effervescencies of devotional tracts, which having little or no meaning in them, nature is oft times obliged to find one-And as for my father's example! 'twas so far from being either aiding or abetting thereunto, that 'twas the whole business of his life to keep all fancies of that kind out of her head-Nature had done her part, to have spared him this trouble; and what was not a little inconsistent, my father knew it-And here am I sitting, this 12th day of August, 1766, in a purple jerkin and yellow pair of slippers, without either wig or cap on, a most 
[Page 6]
tragicomical completion of his prediction, "" 
The mistake of my father, was in attacking my mother's motive, instead of the act itself: for certainly key-holes were made for other purposes; and considering the act, as an act which interfered with a true proposition, and denied a key-hole to be what it was -it became a violation of nature; and was so far, you see, criminal. 
It is for this reason, an' please your Reverences, That key-holes are 
[Page 7]
the occasions of more sin and wickedness, than all other holes in this world put together. 
-which leads me to my uncle Toby's amours. 

[Page 8]

CHAP. II. 
Though the Corporal had been as good as his word in putting my uncle Toby's great ramallie-wig into pipes, yet the time was too short to produce any great effects from it: it had lain many years squeezed up in the corner of his old campaign trunk; and as bad forms are not so easy to be got the better of, and the use of candle-ends not so well understood, it was not so pliable a business as one would have wished. The Corporal with cheary eye and both arms extended, had fallen back perpendicular from it a score times, to inspire it, if possible, with a better air-had SPLEEN given a look at it, 
[Page 9]
'twould have cost her ladyship a smile -it curl'd every where but where the Corporal would have it; and where a buckle or two, in his opinion, would have done it honour, he could as soon have raised the dead. 
Such it was-or rather such would it have seem'd upon any other brow; but the sweet look of goodness which sat upon my uncle Toby's, assimulated every thing around it so sovereignly to itself, and Nature had moreover wrote Gentleman with so fair a hand in every line of his countenance, that even his tarnish'd gold-laced hat and huge cockade of flimsy taffeta became him; and though not worth a button in themselves, yet the moment my uncle Toby put them on, they became serious objects, 
[Page 10]
and altogether seem'd to have been picked up by the hand of Science to set him off to advantage. 
Nothing in this world could have cooperated more powerfully towards this, than my uncle Toby's blue and gold- had not Quantity in some measure been necessary to Grace: in a period of fifteen or sixteen years since they had been made, by a total inactivity in my uncle Toby's life, for he seldom went further than the bowling-green-his blue and gold had become so miserably too strait for him, that it was with the utmost difficulty the Corporal was able to get him into them: the taking them up at the sleeves, was of no advantage. -They were laced however down the back, and at the seams of the sides, &c. in the mode of King 
[Page 11]
William's reign; and to shorten all description, they shone so bright against the sun that morning, and had so metallick, and doughty an air with them, that had my uncle Toby thought of attacking in armour, nothing could have so well imposed upon his imagination. 
As for the thin scarlet breeches, they had been unripp'd by the taylor between the legs, and left at sixes and sevens- 
-Yes, Madam,-but let us govern our fancies. It is enough they were held impracticable the night before, and as there was no alternative in my uncle Toby's wardrobe, he sallied forth in the red plush. 
The Corporal had array'd himself in poor Le Fevre's regimental coat; and 
[Page 12]
with his hair tuck'd up under his Montero cap, which he had furbish'd up for the occasion, march'd three paces distant from his master: a whiff of military pride had puff'd out his shirt at the wrist; and upon that in a black leather thong clipp'd into a tassel beyond the knot, hung the Corporal's stick- My uncle Toby carried his cane like a pike. 
-It looks well at least; quoth my father to himself. 

[Page 13]

CHAP. III. 
My uncle Toby turn'd his head more than once behind him, to see how he was supported by the Corporal; and the Corporal as oft as he did it, gave a slight flourish with his stick- but not vapouringly; and with the sweetest accent of most respectful encouragement, bid his honour "" 
Now my uncle Toby did fear; and grievously too: he knew not (as my father had reproach'd him) so much as the right end of a Woman from the wrong, and therefore was never altogether at his ease near any one of them-unless in sorrow or distress; then infinite was his pity; nor would the most courteous 
[Page 14]
knight of romance have gone further, at least upon one leg, to have wiped away a tear from a woman's eye; and yet excepting once that he was beguiled into it by Mrs. Wadman, he had never looked stedfastly into one; and would often tell my father in the simplicity of his heart, that it was almost (if not alout) as bad as talking bawdy.- 
-And suppose it is? my father would say. 

[Page 15]

CHAP. IV. 
She cannot, quoth my uncle Toby, halting, when they had march'd up to within twenty paces of Mrs. Wadman's door-she cannot, Corporal, take it amiss.- 
-She will take it, an' please your honour, said the Corporal, just as the Jew's widow at Lisbon took it of my brother Tom.- 
-And how was that? quoth my uncle Toby, facing quite about to the Corporal. 
Your honour, replied the Corporal, knows of Tom's misfortunes; but this 
[Page 16]
affair has nothing to do with them any further than this, That if Tom had not married the widow-or had it pleased God after their marriage, that they had but put pork into their sausages, the honest soul had never been taken out of his warm bed, and dragg'd to the inquisition-'Tis a cursed place- added the Corporal, shaking his head, -when once a poor creature is in, he is in, an' please your honour, for ever. 
'Tis very true; said my uncle Toby looking gravely at Mrs. Wadman's house, as he spoke. 
Nothing, continued the Corporal, can be so sad as confinement for life-or so sweet, an' please your honour, as liberty. 

[Page 17]
Nothing, Trim-said my uncle Toby, musing- 
Whilst a man is free-cried the Corporal, giving a flourish with his stick thus- 

[Page 18]
A thousand of my father's most subtle syllogisms could not have said more for celibacy. 
My uncle Toby look'd earnestly towards his cottage and his bowling green. 
The Corporal had unwarily conjured up the Spirit of calculation with his wand; and he had nothing to do, but to conjure him down again with his story, and in this form of Exorcism, most un-ecclesiastically did the Corporal do it. 

[Page 19]

CHAP. V. 
As Tom's place, an' please your honour, was easy-and the weather warm-it put him upon thinking seriously of settling himself in the world; and as it fell out about that time, that a Jew who kept a sausage shop in the same street, had the ill luck to die of a strangury, and leave his widow in possession of a rousing trade-Tom thought (as every body in Lisbon was doing the best he could devise for himself) there could be no harm in offering her his service to carry it on: so without any introduction to the widow, except that of buying a pound of sausages at her shop-Tom set out-counting the matter thus within 
[Page 20]
himself, as he walk'd along; that let the worst come of it that could, he should at least get a pound of sausages for their worth-but, if things went well, he should be set up; inasmuch as he should get not only a pound of sausages-but a wife-and a sausage-shop, an' please your honour, into the bargain. 
Every servant in the family, from high to low, wish'd Tom success; and I can fancy, an' please your honour, I see him this moment with his white dimity waistcoat and breeches, and hat a little o' one side, passing jollily along the street, swinging his stick, with a smile and a chearful word for every body he met: -But alas! Tom! thou smilest no more, cried the Corporal, looking on 
[Page 21]
one side of him upon the ground, as if he apostrophized him in his dungeon. 
Poor fellow! said my uncle Toby, feelingly. 
He was an honest, light-hearted lad, an' please your honour, as ever blood warm'd- 
-Then he resembled thee, Trim, said my uncle Toby, rapidly. 
The Corporal blush'd down to his fingers ends-a tear of sentimental bashfulness -another of gratitude to my uncle Toby-and a tear of sorrow for his brother's misfortunes, started into his eye and ran sweetly down his cheek together; my uncle Toby's kindled as one 
[Page 22]
lamp does at another; and taking hold of the breast of Trim's coat (which had been that of Le Fevre's) as if to ease his lame leg, but in reality to gratify a finer feeling-he stood silent for a minute and a half; at the end of which he took his hand away, and the Corporal making a bow, went on with his story of his brother and the Jew's widow. 

[Page 23]

CHAP. VI. 
When Tom, an' please your honour, got to the shop, there was nobody in it, but a poor negro girl, with a bunch of white feathers slightly tied to the end of a long cane, flapping away flies-not killing them. -'Tis a pretty picture! said my uncle Toby-she had suffered persecution, Trim, and had learnt mercy- 
-She was good, an' please your honour, from nature as well as from hardships; and there are circumstances in the story of that poor friendless slut that would melt a heart of stone, said Trim; and some dismal winter's evening, when your honour is in the humour, they 
[Page 24]
shall be told you with the rest of Tom's story, for it makes a part of it- 
Then do not forget, Trim, said my uncle Toby. 
A Negro has a soul? an' please your honour, said the Corporal (doubtingly). 
I am not much versed, Corporal, quoth my uncle Toby, in things of that kind; but I suppose, God would not leave him without one, any more than thee or me- 
-It would be putting one sadly over the head of another, quoth the Corporal. 

[Page 25]
It would so; said my uncle Toby. Why then, an' please your honour, is a black wench to be used worse than a white one? 
I can give no reason, said my uncle Toby- 
-Only, cried the Corporal, shaking his head, because she has no one to stand up for her- 
-'Tis that very thing, Trim, quoth my uncle Toby,-which recommends her to protection-and her brethren with her; 'tis the fortune of war which has put the whip into our hands now- where it may be hereafter, heaven knows!-but be it where it will, 
[Page 26]
the brave, Trim! will not use it unkindly. 
-God forbid, said the Corporal. 
Amen, responded my uncle Toby, laying his hand upon his heart. 
The Corporal returned to his story, and went on-but with an embarassment in doing it, which here and there a reader in this world will not be able to comprehend; for by the many sudden transitions all along, from one kind and cordial passion to another, in getting thus far on his way, he had lost the sportable key of his voice which gave sense and spirit to his tale: he attempted twice to resume it, but could 
[Page 27]
not please himself; so giving a stout hem! to rally back the retreating spirits, and aiding Nature at the same time with his left arm a-kimbo on one side, and with his right a little extended, supporting her on the other-the Corporal got as near the note as he could; and in that attitude, continued his story. 

[Page 28]

CHAP. VII. 
As Tom, an' please your honour, had no business at that time with the Moorish girl, he passed on into the room beyond to talk to the Jew's widow about love-and his pound of sausages; and being, as I have told your honour, an open, cheary hearted lad, with his character wrote in his looks and carriage, he took a chair, and without much apology, but with great civility at the same time, placed it close to her at the table, and sat down. 
There is nothing so awkward, as courting a woman, an' please your honour, whilst she is making sausages- So Tom began a discourse upon them; 
[Page 29]
first gravely,-""-Then a little gayly- as, ""-and so on- taking care only as he went along, to season what he had to say upon sausages, rather under, than over;-that he might have room to act in- 
It was owing to the neglect of that very precaution, said my uncle Toby, laying his hand upon Trim's shoulder, That Count de la Motte lost the battle of Wynendale: he pressed too speedily into the wood; which if he had not done, Lisle had not fallen into our hands, nor Ghent and Bruges, which both followed 
[Page 30]
her example; it was so late in the year, continued my uncle Toby, and so terrible a season came on, that if things had not fallen out as they did, our troops must have perished in the open field.- 
-Why therefore, may not battles, an' please your honour, as well as marriages, be made in heaven? -My uncle Toby mused.- 
Religion inclined him to say one thing, and his high idea of military skill tempted him to say another; so not being able to frame a reply exactly to his mind -my uncle Toby said nothing at all; and the Corporal finished his story. 

[Page 31]
As Tom perceived, an' please your honour, that he gained ground, and that all he had said upon the subject of sausages was kindly taken, he went on to help her a little in making them. - First, by taking hold of the ring of the sausage whilst she stroked the forced meat down with her hand-then by cutting the strings into proper lengths, and holding them in his hand, whilst she took them out one by one-then, by putting them across her mouth, that she might take them out as she wanted them-and so on from little to more, till at last he adventured to tie the sausage himself, whilst she held the snout.- 
-Now a widow, an' please your honour, always chuses a second husband 
[Page 32]
as unlike the first as she can: so the affair was more than half settled in her mind before Tom mentioned it. 
She made a feint however of defending herself, by snatching up a sausage: -Tom instantly laid hold of another- 
But seeing Tom's had more gristle in it- 
She signed the capitulation-and Tom sealed it; and there was an end of the matter. 

[Page 33]

CHAP. VIII. 
All womankind, continued Trim, (commenting upon his story) from the highest to the lowest, an' please your honour, love jokes; the difficulty is to know how they chuse to have them cut; and there is no knowing that, but by trying as we do with our artillery in the field, by raising or letting down their breeches, till we hit the mark.- 
-I like the comparison, said my uncle Toby, better than the thing itself- 
-Because your honour, quoth the Corporal, loves glory, more than pleasure. 

[Page 34]
I hope, Trim, answered my uncle Toby, I love mankind more than either; and as the knowledge of arms tends so apparently to the good and quiet of the world-and particularly that branch of it which we have practised together in our bowling-green, has no object but to shorten the strides of Ambition, and intrench the lives and fortunes of the few, from the plunderings of the many -whenever that drum beats in our ears, I trust, Corporal, we shall neither of us want so much humanity and fellow-feeling as to face about and march. 
In pronouncing this, my uncle Toby faced about, and march'd firmly as at the head of his company-and the faithful Corporal, shouldering his stick, 
[Page 35]
and striking his hand upon his coat-skirt as he took his first step-march'd close behind him down the avenue. 
- cried my father to my mother -by all that's strange, they are besieging Mrs. Wadman in form, and are marching round her house to mark out the lines of circumvallation. 
I dare say, quoth my mother- -But stop, dear Sir-for what my mother dared to say upon the occasion -and what my father did say upon it-with her replies and his rejoinders, shall be read, perused, paraphrased, commented and discanted upon-or to say it all in a word, shall be thumb'd over 
[Page 36]
by Posterity in a chapter apart-I say, by Posterity-and care not, if I repeat the word again-for what has this book done more than the Legation of Moses, or the Tale of a Tub, that it may not swim down the gutter of Time along with them? 
I will not argue the matter: Time wastes too fast: every letter I trace tells me with what rapidity Life follows my pen; the days and hours of it, more precious, my dear Jenny! than the rubies about thy neck, are flying over our heads like light clouds of a windy day, never to return more-every thing presses on-whilst thou art twisting that lock,-see! it grows grey; and 
[Page 37]
every time I kiss thy hand to bid adieu, and every absence which follows it, are preludes to that eternal separation which we are shortly to make.- 
-Heaven have mercy upon us both! 

[Page 38]

CHAP. IX. 
Now, for what the world thinks of that ejaculation-I would not give a groat. 

[Page 39]

CHAP. X. 
My mother had gone with her left arm twisted in my father's right, till they had got to the fatal angle of the old garden wall, where Doctor Slop was overthrown by Obadiah on the coach-horse: as this was directly opposite to the front of Mrs. Wadman's house, when my father came to it, he gave a look across; and seeing my uncle Toby and the Corporal within ten paces of the door, he turn'd about-"" -No matter, if it be ten minutes, quoth my mother. 
-It will not detain us half a one; said my father. 
The Corporal was just then setting in with the story of his brother Tom and the Jew's widow: the story went on- and on-it had episodes in it- it came back, and went on-and on again; there was no end of it-the reader found it very long- 
-G--- help my father! he pish'd fifty times at every new attitude, and gave the corporal's stick, with all its flourishings and danglings, to as many devils as chose to accept of them. 

[Page 41]
When issues of events like these my father is waiting for, are hanging in the scales of fate, the mind has the advantage of changing the principle of expectation three times, without which it would not have power to see it out. 
Curiosity governs the first moment; and the second moment is all œconomy to justify the expence of the first- and for the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth moments, and so on to the day of judgment -'tis a point of Honour. 
I need not be told, that the ethic writers have assigned this all to Patience; but that Virtue methinks, has extent of dominion sufficient of her own, and enough to do in it, without invading the 
[Page 42]
few dismantled castles which Honour has left him upon the earth. 
My father stood it out as well as he could with these three auxiliaries to the end of Trim's story; and from thence to the end of my uncle Toby's panegyrick upon arms, in the chapter following it; when seeing, that instead of marching up to Mrs. Wadman's door, they both faced about and march'd down the avenue diametrically opposite to his expectation -he broke out at once with that little subacid soreness of humour which, in certain situations, distinguished his character from that of all other men. 

[Page 43]

CHAP. XI. 
-"" cried my father --&c.---- 
I dare say, said my mother, they are making fortifications- 
-Not on Mrs. Wadman's premises! cried my father, stepping back- 
I suppose not: quoth my mother. 
I wish, said my father, raising his voice, the whole science of fortification at the devil, with all its trumpery of saps, mines, blinds, gabions, fausse-brays and cuvetts- 
-They are foolish things-said my mother. 

[Page 44]
Now she had a way, which by the bye, I would this moment give away my purple jerkin, and my yellow slippers into the bargain, if some of your reverences would imitate-and that was never to refuse her assent and consent to any proposition my father laid before her, merely because she did not understand it, or had no ideas to the principal word or term of art, upon which the tenet or proposition rolled. She contented herself with doing all that her godfathers and godmothers promised for her-but no more; and so would go on using a hard word twenty years together-and replying to it too, if it was a verb, in all its moods and tenses, without giving herself any trouble to enquire about it. 

[Page 45]
This was an eternal source of misery to my father, and broke the neck, at the first setting out, of more good dialogues between them, than could have done the most petulant contradiction-the few which survived were the better for the cuvetts- 
-"" said my mother. 
-Particularly the cuvetts; replied my father. 
'Twas enough-he tasted the sweet of triumph-and went on. 
-Not that they are, properly speaking, Mrs. Wadman's premises, said my father, partly correcting himself-because she is but tenant for life- 

[Page 46]
-That makes a great difference- said my mother- 
-In a fool's head, replied my father- 
Unless she should happen to have a child-said my mother- 
-But she must persuade my brother Toby first to get her one- 
-To be sure, Mr. Shandy, quoth my mother. 
-Though if it comes to persuasion -said my father-Lord have mercy upon them. 
Amen: said my mother, piano. 
Amen: cried my father, fortissimè. 

[Page 47]
Amen: said my mother again-but with such a sighing cadence of personal pity at the end of it, as discomfited every fibre about my father-he instantly took out his almanack; but before he could untie it, Yorick's congregation coming out of church, became a full answer to one half of his business with it-and my mother telling him it was a sacrament day-left him as little in doubt, as to the other part-He put his almanack into his pocket. 
The first Lord of the Treasury thinking of ways and means, could not have returned home, with a more embarrassed look. 

[Page 48]

CHAP. XII. 
Upon looking back from the end of the last chapter and surveying the texture of what has been wrote, it is necessary, that upon this page and the five following, a good quantity of heterogeneous matter be inserted, to keep up that just balance betwixt wisdom and folly, without which a book would not hold together a single year: nor is it a poor creeping digression (which but for the name of, a man might continue as well going on in the king's highway) which will do the business-no; if it is to be a digression, it must be a good frisky one, and upon a frisky subject too, where neither the horse or his rider are to be caught, but by rebound. 

[Page 49]
The only difficulty, is raising powers suitable to the nature of the service: Fancy is capricious-Wit must not be searched for-and Pleasantry (good-natured slut as she is) will not come in at a call, was an empire to be laid at her feet. 
-The best way for a man, is to say his prayers- 
Only if it puts him in mind of his infirmities and defects as well ghostly as bodily-for that purpose, he will find himself rather worse after he has said them than before-for other purposes, better. 
For my own part there is not a way either moral or mechanical under heaven 
[Page 50]
that I could think of, which I have not taken with myself in this case: sometimes by addressing myself directly to the soul herself, and arguing the point over and over again with her upon the extent of her own faculties- 
-I never could make them an inch the wider- 
Then by changing my system, and trying what could be made of it upon the body, by temperance, soberness and chastity: These are good, quoth I, in themselves -they are good, absolutely;-they are good, relatively;-they are good for health-they are good for happiness in this world-they are good for happiness in the next- 

[Page 51]
In short, they were good for every thing but the thing wanted; and there they were good for nothing, but to leave the soul just as heaven made it: as for the theological virtues of faith and hope, they give it courage; but then that sniveling virtue of Meekness (as my father would always call it) takes it quite away again, so you are exactly where you started. 
Now in all common and ordinary cases, there is nothing which I have found to answer so well as this- 
-Certainly, if there is any dependence upon Logic, and that I am not blinded by self-love, there must be something of true genius about me, merely upon this symptom of it, that I do not know what envy is: for never do 
[Page 52]
I hit upon any invention or device which tendeth to the furtherance of good writing, but I instantly make it public; willing that all mankind should write as well as myself. 
-Which they certainly will, when they think as little. 

[Page 53]

CHAP. XIII. 
Now in ordinary cases, that is, when I am only stupid, and the thoughts rise heavily and pass gummous through my pen- 
Or that I am got, I know not how, into a cold unmetaphorical vein of infamous writing, and cannot take a plumb-lift out of it for my soul; so must be obliged to go on writing like a Dutch commentator to the end of the chapter, unless something be done- 
-I never stand confering with pen and ink one moment; for if a pinch of snuff or a stride or two across the room will not do the business for me-I take a razor at once; and having tried the edge 
[Page 54]
of it upon the palm of my hand, without further ceremony, except that of first lathering my beard, I shave it off; taking care only if I do leave a hair, that it be not a grey one: this done, I change my shirt-put on a better coat-send for my last wig-put my topaz ring upon my finger; and in a word, dress myself from one end to the other of me, after my best fashion. 
Now the devil in hell must be in it, if this does not do: for consider, Sir, as every man chuses to be present at the shaving of his own beard (though there is no rule without an exception) and unavoidably sits overagainst himself the whole time it is doing, in case he has a hand in it-the Situation, like all others, 
[Page 55]
has notions of her own to put into the brain.- 
-I maintain it, the conceits of a rough-bearded man, are seven years more terse and juvenile for one single operation; and if they did not run a risk of being quite shaved away, might be carried up by continual shavings, to the highest pitch of sublimity-How Homer could write with so long a beard, I don't know-and as it makes against my hypothesis, I as little care-But let us return to the Toilet. 
Ludovicus Sorbonensis makes this entirely an affair of the body (????????????????) as he calls it-but he is deceived: the soul and body are joint-sharers 
[Page 56]
in every thing they get: A man cannot dress, but his ideas get cloath'd at the same time; and if he dresses like a gentleman, every one of them stands presented to his imagination, genteelized along with him-so that he has nothing to do, but take his pen, and write like himself. 
For this cause, when your honours and reverences would know whether I writ clean and fit to be read, you will be able to judge full as well by looking into my Laundress's bill, as my book: there was one single month in which I can make it appear, that I dirtied one and thirty shirts with clean writing; and after all, was more abus'd, curs'd, criticis'd and confounded, and had more 
[Page 57]
mystic heads shaken at me, for what I had wrote in that one month, than in all the other months of that year put together. 
-But their honours and reverences had not seen my bills. 

[Page 58]

CHAP. XIV. 
As I never had any intention of beginning the Digression, I am making all this preparation for, till I come to the 15th chapter-I have this chapter to put to whatever use I think proper-I have twenty this moment ready for it-I could write my chapter of Button-holes in it-- 
Or my chapter of Pishes, which should follow them- 
Or my chapter of Knots, in case their reverences have done with them- they might lead me into mischief: the safest way is to follow the tract of the 
[Page 59]
learned, and raise objections against what I have been writing, tho' I declare beforehand, I know no more than my heels how to answer them. 
And first, it may be said, there is a pelting kind of thersitical satire, as black as the very ink 'tis wrote with-(and by the bye, whoever says so, is indebted to the muster-master general of the Grecian army, for suffering the name of so ugly and foul-mouth'd a man as Thersites to continue upon his roll- for it has furnished him with an epithet) -in these productions he will urge, all the personal washings and scrubbings upon earth do a sinking genius no sort of good-but just the contrary, inasmuch 
[Page 60]
as the dirtier the fellow is, the better generally he succeeds in it. 
To this, I have no other answer- at least ready--but that the Archbishop of Benevento wrote his nasty Romance of the Galatea, as all the world knows, in a purple coat, waistcoat, and purple pair of breeches; and that the penance set him of writing a commentary upon the book of the Revelations, as severe as it was look'd upon by one part of the world, was far from being deem'd so, by the other, upon the single account of that Investment. 
Another objection, to all this remedy, is its want of universality; forasmuch as the shaving part of it, upon which so 
[Page 61]
much stress is laid, by an unalterable law of nature excludes one half of the species entirely from its use: all I can say is, that female writers, whether of England, or of France, must e'en go without it- 
As for the Spanish ladies-I am in no sort of distress- 

[Page 62]

CHAP. XV. 
The fifteenth chapter is come at last; and brings nothing with it but a sad signature of "" 
For in talking of my digression- I declare before heaven I have made it! What a strange creature is mortal man! said she. 
'Tis very true, said I-but 'twere better to get all these things out of our heads, and return to my uncle Toby. 

[Page 63]

CHAP. XVI. 
When my uncle Toby and the Corporal had marched down to the bottom of the avenue, they recollected their business lay the other way; so they faced about and marched up streight to Mrs. Wadman's door. 
I warrant your honour; said the Corporal, touching his Montero-cap with his hand, as he passed him in order to give a knock at the door-My uncle Toby, contrary to his invariable way of treating his faithful servant, said nothing good or bad: the truth was, he had not altogether marshal'd his ideas; he wish'd for another conference, and as the Corporal 
[Page 64]
was mounting up the three steps before the door-he hem'd twice-a portion of my uncle Toby's most modest spirits fled, at each expulsion, towards the Corporal; he stood with the rapper of the door suspended for a full minute in his hand, he scarce knew why. Bridget stood perdue within, with her finger and her thumb upon the latch, benumb'd with expectation; and Mrs. Wadman, with an eye ready to be deflowered again, sat breathless behind the window-curtain of her bed-chamber, watching their approach. 
Trim! said my uncle Toby-but as he articulated the word, the minute expired, and Trim let fall the rapper. 

[Page 65]
My uncle Toby perceiving that all hopes of a conference were knock'd on the head by it-whistled Lillabullero. 

[Page 66]

CHAP. XVII. 
As Mrs. Bridget's finger and thumb were upon the latch, the Corporal did not knock as oft as perchance your honour's taylor-I might have taken my example something nearer home; for I owe mine, some five and twenty pounds at least, and wonder at the man's patience- 
-But this is nothing at all to the world: only 'tis a cursed thing to be in debt; and there seems to be a fatality in the exchequers of some poor princes, particularly those of our house, which no Economy can bind down in irons: for my own part, I'm persuaded there is 
[Page 67]
not any one prince, prelate, pope, or potentate, great or small upon earth, more desirous in his heart of keeping streight with the world than I am-or who takes more likely means for it. I never give above half a guinea-or walk with boots-or cheapen tooth-picks -or lay out a shilling upon a bandbox the year round; and for the six months I'm in the country, I'm upon so small a scale, that with all the good temper in the world, I out-do Rousseau, a bar length-for I keep neither man or boy, or horse, or cow, or dog, or cat, or any thing that can eat or drink, except a thin poor piece of a Vestal (to keep my fire in) and who has generally as bad an appetite as myself-but if you think this makes 
[Page 68]
a philosopher of me-I would not, my good people! give a rush for your judgments. 
True philosophy-but there is no treating the subject whilst my uncle is whistling Lillabullero. 
-Let us go into the house. 

[Page 69]

CHAP. XVIII. 

[Blank page]

[Page 70]

CHAP. XIX. 

[Blank page]

[Page 71]

CHAP. XX. 
- * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *- 
-You shall see the very place, Madam; said my uncle Toby. 
Mrs. Wadman blush'd-look'd towards the door-turn'd pale- blush'd slightly again-recovered her natural colour-blush'd worse than ever; which for the sake of the unlearned reader, I translate thus- 

[Page 72]


   ""What would the world say if I look'd at it? 
""I wish I could look at it- 
""I will look at it.""She first, saith Slawkenbergius, stops the asse, and holding his halter in her left hand (lest he should get away) she thrusts her right hand into the very bottom of his pannier to search for it- For what?-you'll not know the sooner, quoth Slawkenbergius, for interrupting me- 
"" says the asse. 
"" says the second. 
-And thou art little better, quoth she to the third; for nothing is there in 
[Page 77]
thy panniers but trunk-hose and pantofles -and so to the fourth and fifth, going on one by one through the whole string, till coming to the asse which carries it, she turns the pannier upside down, looks at it-considers it-samples it- measures it-stretches it-wets it-dries it-then takes her teeth both to the warp and weft of it- 
-Of what? for the love of Christ! 
I am determined, answered Slawkenbergius, that all the powers upon earth shall never wring that secret from my breast. 

[Page 78]

CHAP. XXII. 
We live in a world beset on all sides with mysteries and riddles- and so 'tis no matter-else it seems strange, that Nature, who makes every thing so well to answer its destination, and seldom or never errs, unless for pastime, in giving such forms and aptitudes to whatever passes through her hands, that whether she designs for the plough, the caravan, the cart-or whatever other creature she models, be it but an asse's foal, you are sure to have the thing you wanted; and yet at the same time should so eternally bungle it as she does, in making so simple a thing as a married man. 

[Page 79]
Whether it is in the choice of the clay-or that it is frequently spoiled in the baking; by an excess of which a husband may turn out too crusty (you know) on one hand-or not enough so, through defect of heat, on the other -or whether this great Artificer is not so attentive to the little Platonic exigences of that part of the species, for whose use she is fabricating this-or that her Ladyship sometimes scarce knows what sort of a husband will do-I know not: we will discourse about it after supper. 
It is enough, that neither the observation itself, or the reasoning upon it, are at all to the purpose-but rather against it; since with regard to my uncle 
[Page 80]
Toby's fitness for the marriage state, nothing was ever better: she had formed him of the best and kindliest clay- had temper'd it with her own milk, and breathed into it the sweetest spirit-she had made him all gentle, generous and humane-she had fill'd his heart with trust and confidence, and disposed every passage which led to it, for the communication of the tenderest offices-she had moreover considered the other causes for which matrimony was ordained- 
And accordingly * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *. 
The DONATION was not defeated by my uncle Toby's wound. 

[Page 81]
Now this last article was somewhat apocryphal; and the Devil, who is the great disturber of our faiths in this world, had raised scruples in Mrs. Wadman's brain about it; and like a true devil as he was, had done his own work at the same time, by turning my uncle Toby's Virtue thereupon into nothing but empty bottles, tripes, trunk-hose, and pantofles. 

[Page 82]

CHAP. XXIII. 
Mrs. Bridget had pawn'd all the little stock of honour a poor chambermaid was worth in the world, that she would get to the bottom of the affair in ten days; and it was built upon one of the most concessible postulatum in nature: namely, that whilst my uncle Toby was making love to her mistress, the Corporal could find nothing better to do, than make love to her-"" said Bridget, "" 
Friendship has two garments; an outer, and an under one. Bridget was 
[Page 83]
serving her mistress's interests in the one -and doing the thing which most pleased herself in the other; so had as many stakes depending upon my uncle Toby's wound, as the Devil himself-Mrs. Wadman had but one-and as it possibly might be her last (without discouraging Mrs. Bridget, or discrediting her talents) was determined to play her cards herself. 
She wanted not encouragement: a child might have look'd into his hand -there was such a plainness and simplicity in his playing out what trumps he had-with such an unmistrusting ignorance of the ten-ace-and so naked and defenceless did he sit upon the 
[Page 84]
same sopha with widow Wadman, that a generous heart would have wept to have won the game of him. 
Let us drop the metaphor. 

[Page 85]

CHAP. XXIV. 
-And the story too-if you please: for though I have all along been hastening towards this part of it, with so much earnest desire, as well knowing it to be the choicest morsel of what I had to the offer to the world, yet now that I am got to it, any one is welcome to take my pen, and go on with the story for me that will-I see the difficulties of the descriptions I'm going to give-and feel my want of powers. 
It is one comfort at least to me, that I lost some fourscore ounces of blood this week in a most uncritical fever which 
[Page 86]
attacked me at the beginning of this chapter; so that I have still some hopes remaining, it may be more in the serous or globular parts of the blood, than in the subtile aura of the brain-be it which it will-an Invocation can do no hurt-and I leave the affair entirely to the invoked, to inspire or to inject me according as he sees good. 

[Page 87]

THE INVOCATION. 
Gentle Spirit of sweetest humour, who erst didst sit upon the easy pen of my beloved Cervantes; Thou who glided'st daily through his lattice, and turned'st the twilight of his prison into noon-day brightness by thy presence-tinged'st his little urn of water with heaven-sent Nectar, and all the time he wrote of Sancho and his master, didst cast thy mystic mantle o'er his wither'd * 35 stump, and wide extended it to all the evils of his life- 

[Page 88]
-Turn in hither, I beseech thee! -behold these breeches!-they are all I have in the world-that piteous rent was given them at Lyons- 
My shirts! see what a deadly schism has happen'd amongst 'em-for the laps are in Lombardy, and the rest of 'em here-I never had but six, and a cunning gypsey of a laundress at Milan cut me off the fore-laps of five-To do her justice, she did it with some consideration -for I was returning out of Italy. 
And yet, notwithstanding all this, and a pistol tinder-box which was moreover filch'd from me at Sienna, and 
[Page 89]
twice that I pay'd five Pauls for two hard eggs, once at Raddicoffini, and a second time at Capua-I do not think a journey through France and Italy, provided a man keeps his temper all the way, so bad a thing as some people would make you believe: there must be ups and downs, or how the duce should we get into vallies where Nature spreads so many tables of entertainment. -'Tis nonsense to imagine they will lend you their voitures to be shaken to pieces for nothing; and unless you pay twelve sous for greasing your wheels, how should the poor peasant get butter to his bread? -We really expect too much-and for the livre or two above par for your suppers and bed-at the most they are but one shilling and ninepence half-penny 
[Page 90]
-who would embroil their philosophy for it? for heaven's and for your own sake, pay it-pay it with both hands open, rather than leave Disappointment sitting drooping upon the eye of your fair Hostess and her Damsels in the gate-way, at your departure-and besides, my dear Sir, you get a sisterly kiss of each of 'em worth a pound- at least I did- 
-For my uncle Toby's amours running all the way in my head, they had the same effect upon me as if they been my own-I was in the most perfect state of bounty and good will; and felt the kindliest harmony vibrating within me, with every oscillation of the chaise alike; so that whether the roads 
[Page 91]
were rough or smooth, it made no difference; every thing I saw, or had to do with, touch'd upon some secret spring either of sentiment or rapture. 
-They were the sweetest notes I ever heard; and I instantly let down the fore-glass to hear them more distinctly -'Tis Maria; said the postilion, observing I was listening-Poor Maria, continued he, (leaning his body on one side to let me see her, for he was in a line betwixt us) is sitting upon a bank playing her vespers upon her pipe, with her little goat beside her. 
The young fellow utter'd this with an accent and a look so perfectly in tune to a feeling heart, that I instantly made a 
[Page 92]
vow, I would give him a four and twenty sous piece, when I got to Moulins- 
-And who is poor Maria? said I. 
The love and pity of all the villages around us; said the postillion-it is but three years ago, that the sun did not shine upon so fair, so quick-witted and amiable a maid; and better fate did Maria deserve, than to have her Banns forbid, by the intrigues of the curate of the parish who published them- 
He was going on, when Maria, who had made a short pause, put the pipe to her mouth and began the air again 
[Page 93]
-they were the same notes;-yet were ten times sweeter: It is the evening service to the Virgin, said the young man-but who has taught her to play it-or how she came by her pipe, no one knows; we think that Heaven has assisted her in both; for ever since she has been unsettled in her mind, it seems her only consolation-she has never once had the pipe out of her hand, but plays that service upon it almost night and day. 
The postillion delivered this with so much discretion and natural eloquence, that I could not help decyphering something in his face above his condition, and should have sifted out his history, 
[Page 94]
had not poor Maria's taken such full possession of me. 
We had got up by this time almost to the bank where Maria was sitting: she was in a thin white jacket with her hair, all but two tresses, drawn up into a silk net, with a few olive leaves twisted a little fantastically on one side-she was beautiful; and if ever I felt the full force of an honest heart-ache, it was the moment I saw her- 
-God help her! poor damsel! above a hundred masses, said the postillion, have been said in the several parish churches and convents around, f -but without effect; we have still hopes, as she is sensible for short intervals, 
[Page 95]
that the Virgin at last will restore her to herself; but her parents, who know her best, are hopeless upon that score, and think her senses are lost for ever. 
As the postillion spoke this, Maria made a cadence so melancholy, so tender and querulous, that I sprung out of the chaise to help her, and found myself sitting betwixt her and her goat before I relapsed from my enthusiasm. 
Maria look'd wistfully for some time at me, and then at her goat-and then at me-and then at her goat again, and so on, alternately- 
-Well, Maria, said I softly- What resemblance do you find? 

[Page 96]
I do intreat the candid reader to believe me, that it was from the humblest conviction of what a Beast man is,-that I ask'd the question; and that I would not have let fallen an unseasonable pleasantry in the venerable presence of Misery, to be entitled to all the wit that ever Rabelais scatter'd-and yet I own my heart smote me, and that I so smarted at the very idea of it, that I swore I would set up for Wisdom and utter grave sentences the rest of my days-and never- never attempt again to commit mirth with man, woman, or child, the longest day I had to live. 
As for writing nonsense to them- I believe, there was a reserve-but that I leave to the world. 

[Page 97]
Adieu, Maria!-adieu, poor hapless damsel!-some time, but not now, I may hear thy sorrows from thy own lips -but I was deceived; for that moment she took her pipe and told me such a tale of woe with it, that I rose up, and with broken and irregular steps walk'd softly to my chaise. 
-What an excellent inn at Moulins! 

[Page 98]

CHAP. XXV. 
When we have got to the end of this chapter (but not before) we must all turn back to the two blank chapters, on the account of which my honour has lain bleeding this half hour -I stop it, by pulling off one of my yellow slippers and throwing it with all my violence to the opposite side of my room, with a declaration at the heel of it- 
-That whatever resemblance it may bear to half the chapters which are written in the world, or, for aught I know, may be now writing in it-that it was as casual as the foam of Zeuxis his horse: besides, I look upon a chapter 
[Page 99]
which has, only nothing in it, with respect; and considering what worse things there are in the world--That it is no way a proper subject for satire- 
-Why then was it left so? And here, without staying for my reply, shall I be call'd as many blockheads, numsculs, doddypoles, dunderheads, ninnyhammers, goosecaps, joltheads, nicompoops, and sh--t-a-beds--and other unsavory appellations, as ever the cakebakers of Lernè, cast in the teeth of King Garagantna's shepherds-And I'll let them do it, as Bridget said, as much as they please; for how was it possible they should foresee the necessity I 
[Page 100]
was under of writing the 25th chapter of my book, before the 18th, &c. 
-So I don't take it amiss- All I wish is, that it may be a lesson to the world, "" 

[Page 101]

The Eighteenth Chapter. 
As Mrs. Bridget open'd the door before the Corporal had well given the rap, the interval betwixt that and my uncle Toby's introduction into the parlour, was so short, that Mrs. Wadman had but just time to get from behind the curtain-lay a Bible upon the table, and advance a step or two towards the door to receive him. 
My uncle Toby saluted Mrs. Wadman, after the manner in which women were saluted by men in the year of our Lord God one thousand seven hundred and thirteen-then facing about, he march'd up abreast with her to the 
[Page 102]
sopha, and in three plain words-- though not before he was sat down- nor after he was sat down- but as he was sitting down, told her, ""-so that my uncle Toby strained himself more in the declaration than he needed. 
Mrs. Wadman naturally looked down, upon a slit she had been darning up in her apron, in expectation every moment, that my uncle Toby would go on; but having no talents for amplification, and Love moreover of all others being a subject of which he was the least a master -When he had told Mrs. Wadman once that he loved her, he let it alone, and left the matter to work after its own way. 

[Page 103]
My father was always in raptures with this system of my uncle Toby's, as he falsely called it, and would often say, that could his brother Toby to his processe have added but a pipe of tobacco- he had wherewithal to have found his way, if there was faith in a Spanish proverb, towards the hearts of half the women upon the globe. 
My uncle Toby never understood what my father meant; nor will I presume to extract more from it, than a condemnation of an error which the bulk of the world lie under-but the French, every one of 'em to a man, who believe in it, almost as much as the REAL PRESENCE, "" 

[Page 104]
-I would as soon set about making a black-pudding by the same receipt. 
Let us go on: Mrs. Wadman sat in expectation my uncle Toby would do so, to almost the first pulsation of that minute, wherein silence on one side or the other, generally becomes indecent: so edging herself a little more towards him, and raising up her eyes, sub-blushing, as she did it-she took up the gauntlet -or the discourse (if you like it better) and communed with my uncle Toby, thus. 
The cares and disquietudes of the marriage state, quoth Mrs. Wadman, 
[Page 105]
are very great. I suppose so-said my uncle Toby: and therefore when a person, continued Mrs. Wadman, is so much at his ease as you are-so happy, captain Shandy, in yourself, your friends and your amusements-I wonder, what reasons can incline you to the state- 
-They are written, quoth my uncle Toby, in the Common-Prayer Book. 
Thus far my uncle Toby went on warily, and kept within his depth, leaving Mrs. Wadman to sail upon the gulph as she pleased. 
-As for children-said Mrs. Wadman -though a principal end perhaps of the institution, and the natural wish, I suppose, of every parent-yet do not we all find, they are certain sorrows, and very 
[Page 106]
uncertain comforts? and what is there, dear sir, to pay one for the heart-achs- what compensation for the many tender and disquieting apprehensions of a suffering and defenceless mother who brings them into life? I declare, said my uncle Toby, smit with pity, I know of none; unless it be the pleasure which it has pleased God- 
-A fiddlestick! quoth she. 

[Page 107]

Chapter the Nineteenth. 
Now there are such an infinitude of notes, tunes, cants, chants, airs, looks, and accents with which the word fiddlestick may be pronounced in all such causes as this, every one of 'em impressing a sense and meaning as different from the other, as dirt from cleanliness -That Casuists (for it is an affair of conscience on that score) reckon up no less than fourteen thousand in which you may do either right or wrong. 
Mrs. Wadman hit upon the fiddlestick, which summoned up all my uncle Toby's modest blood into his cheeks-so feeling within himself that he had somehow or other got beyond his depth, he stopt 
[Page 108]
short; and without entering further either into the pains or pleasures of matrimony, he laid his hand upon his heart, and made an offer to take them as they were, and share them along with her. 
When my uncle Toby had said this, he did not care to say it again; so casting his eye upon the Bible which Mrs. Wadman had laid upon the table, he took it up; and popping, dear soul! upon a passage in it, of all others the most interesting to him-which was the siege of Jericho-he set himself to read it over-leaving his proposal of marriage, as he had done his declaration of love, to work with her after its own way. Now it wrought neither as an astringent or a loosener; nor like opium, or bark, or mercury, or buckthorn, or any one 
[Page 109]
drug which nature had bestowed upon the world-in short, it work'd not at all in her; and the cause of that was, that there was something working there before-Babbler that I am! I have anticipated what it was a dozen times; but there is fire still in the subject- allons. 

[Page 110]

CHAP. XXVI. 
It is natural for a perfect stranger who is going from London to Edinburgh, to enquire before he sets out, how many miles to York; which is about the half way-nor does any body wonder, if he goes on and asks about the Corporation, &c.-- 
It was just as natural for Mrs. Wadman, whose first husband was all his time afflicted with a Sciatica, to wish to know how far from the hip to the groin; and how far she was likely to suffer more or less in her feelings, in the one case than in the other. 
She had accordingly read Drake's anatomy from one end to the other. She 
[Page 111]
had peeped into Wharton upon the brain, and borrowed * 36 Graaf upon the bones and muscles; but could make nothing of it. 
She had reason'd likewise from her own powers-laid down theorems -drawn consequences, and come to no conclusion. 
To clear up all, she had twice asked Doctor Slop, "" 
-He is recovered, Doctor Slop would say- 

[Page 112]
What! quite? 
-Quite: madam- 
But what do you mean by a recovery? Mrs. Wadman would say. 
Doctor Slop was the worst man alive at definitions; and so Mrs. Wadman could get no knowledge: in short, there was no way to extract it, but from my uncle Toby himself. 
There is an accent of humanity in an enquiry of this kind which lulls Suspicion to rest--and I am half persuaded the serpent got pretty near it, in his discourse with Eve; for the propensity in the sex to be deceived could not be so great, that she should have boldness to hold chat with the devil, without it- 
[Page 113]
But there is an accent of humanity- how shall I describe it?-'tis an accent which covers the part with a garment, and gives the enquirer a right to be as particular with it, as your body-surgeon. 
"" 
"" 
"" 
"" 
"" et cætera. were so tenderly spoke to, and so directed towards my uncle Toby's heart, that every item of them sunk ten times deeper into it than the evils themselves-but when Mrs. Wadman went round about by Namur to get at my uncle Toby's groin; and engaged him to attack the point of the advanced counterscarp, and pêle mêle 
[Page 114]
with the Dutch to take the counterguard of St. Roch sword in hand-and then with tender notes playing upon his ear, led him all bleeding by the hand out of the trench, wiping her eye, as he was carried to his tent-Heaven! Earth! Sea!-all was lifted up-the springs of nature rose above their levels-an angel of mercy sat besides him on the sopha- his heart glow'd with fire-and had he been worth a thousand, he had lost every heart of them to Mrs. Wadman. 
-And whereabouts, dear Sir, quoth Mrs. Wadman, a little categorically, did you receive this sad blow? -In asking this question, Mrs. Wadman gave a slight glance towards the waistband of my uncle Toby's red plush breeches, expecting 
[Page 115]
naturally, as the shortest reply to it, that my uncle Toby would lay his fore-finger upon the place-It fell out otherwise-for my uncle Toby having got his wound before the gate of St. Nicolas, in one of the traverses of the trench, opposite to the salient angle of the demi-bastion of St. Roch; he could at any time stick a pin upon the identical spot of ground where he was standing when the stone struck him: this struck instantly upon my uncle Toby's sensorium -and with it, struck his large map of the town and citadel of Namur and its environs, which he had purchased and pasted down upon a board by the Corporal's aid, during his long illness -it had lain with other military lumber in the garret ever since, and accordingly 
[Page 116]
the Corporal was detached into the garret to fetch it. 
My uncle Toby measured off thirty toises, with Mrs. Wadman's scissars, from the returning angle before the gate of St. Nicolas; and with such a virgin modesty laid her finger upon the place, that the goddess of Decency, if then in being-if not, 'twas her shade-shook her head, and with a finger wavering across her eyes-forbid her to explain the mistake. 
Unhappy Mrs. Wadman!- 
-For nothing can make this chapter go off with spirit but an apostrophe to thee-but my heart tells me, that in such a crisis an apostrophe is but an insult 
[Page 117]
in disguise, and ere I would offer one to a woman in distress-let the chapter go to the devil; provided any damn'd critick in keeping will be but at the trouble to take it with him. 

[Page 118]

CHAP. XXVII. 
My uncle Toby's Map is carried down into the kitchen. 

[Page 119]

CHAP. XXVIII. 
-And here is the Maes-and this is the Sambre; said the Corporal, pointing with his right hand extended a little towards the map, and his left upon Mrs. Bridget's shoulder- -but not the shoulder next him-and this,is the town of Namur- and this the citadel-and there lay the French-and here lay his honour and myself-and in this cursed trench, Mrs. Bridget, quoth the Corporal, taking her by the hand, did he receive the wound which crush'd him so miserably here- In pronouncing which he slightly press'd the back of her hand towards the part he felt for-and let it fall. 

[Page 120]
We thought, Mr. Trim, it had been more in the middle-said Mrs. Bridget- 
That would have undone us for ever- said the Corporal. 
-And left my poor mistress undone too-said Bridget. 
The Corporal made no reply to the repartee, but by giving Mrs. Bridget a kiss. 
Come-come-said Bridget-holding the palm of her left-hand parallel to the plane of the horizon, and sliding the fingers of the other over it, in a way which could not have been done, had there been the least wart or protuberance 
[Page 121]
-'Tis every syllable of it false, cried the Corporal, before she had half finished the sentence- 
-I know it to be fact, said Bridget, from credible witnesses. 
-Upon my honour, said the Corporal, laying his hand upon his heart, and blushing as he spoke with honest resentment-'tis a story, Mrs. Bridget, as false as hell-Not, said Bridget, interrupting him, that either I or my mistress care a halfpenny about it, whether 'tis so or no-only that when one is married, one would chuse to have such a thing by one at least- 

[Page 122]
It was somewhat unfortunate for Mrs. Bridget, that she had begun the attack with her manual exercise; for the Corporal instantly * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *. 

[Page 123]

CHAP. XXIX. 
It was like the momentary contest in the moist eye-lids of an April morning, "" 
She snatch'd up a rolling-pin- 'twas ten to one, she had laugh'd- 
She laid it down-she cried; and had one single tear of 'em but tasted of bitterness, full sorrowful would the Corporal's heart have been that he had used the argument; but the Corporal understood the sex, a quart major to a terce at least, better than my uncle Toby, and accordingly he assailed Mrs. Bridget after this manner. 

[Page 124]
I know, Mrs. Bridget, said the Corporal, giving her a most respectful kiss, that thou art good and modest by nature, and art withal so generous a girl in thyself, that if I know thee rightly, thou wouldst not wound an insect, much less the honour of so gallant and worthy a soul as my master, wast thou sure to be made a countess of-but thou hast been set on, and deluded, dear Bridget, as is often a woman's case, "" 
Bridget's eyes poured down at the sensations the Corporal excited. 
-Tell me-tell me then, my dear Bridget, continued the Corporal, taking hold of her hand, which hung 
[Page 125]
down dead by her side,-and giving a second kiss-whose suspicion has misled thee? 
Bridget sobb'd a sob or two-then open'd her eyes-the Corporal wiped 'em with the bottom of her apron- she then open'd her heart and told him all. 

[Page 126]

CHAP. XXX. 
My uncle Toby and the Corporal had gone on separately with their operations the greatest part of the campaign, and as effectually cut off from all communication of what either the one or the other had been doing, as if they had been separated from each other by the Maes or the Sambre. 
My uncle Toby, on his side, had presented himself every afternoon in his red and silver, and blue and gold alternately, and sustained an infinity of attacks in them, without knowing them to be attacks -and so had nothing to communicate- 

[Page 127]
The Corporal, on his side, in taking Bridget, by it had gain'd considerable advantages--and consequently had much to communicate-but what were the advantages-as well, as what was the manner by which he had seiz'd them, required so nice an historian that the Corporal durst not venture upon it; and as sensible as he was of glory, would rather have been contented to have gone barehead and without laurels for ever, than torture his master's modesty for a single moment- 
-Best of honest and gallant servants! -But I have apostrophiz'd thee, Trim! once before-and could I apotheosize thee also (that is to say) 
[Page 128]
with good company-I would do it without ceremony in the very next page. 

[Page 129]

CHAP. XXXI. 
Now my uncle Toby had one evening laid down his pipe upon the table, and was counting over to himself upon his finger ends, (beginning at his thumb) all Mrs. Wadman's perfections one by one; and happening two or three times together, either by omitting some, or counting others twice over to puzzle himself sadly before he could get beyond his middle finger-Prithee, Trim!taking up his pipe again,-bring me a pen and ink: Trim brought paper also. 

[Page 130]
Take a full sheet-Trim! said my uncle Toby, making a sign with his pipe at the same time to take a chair and sit down close by him at the table. The Corporal obeyed-placed the paper directly before him-took a pen and dip'd it in the ink. 
-She has a thousand virtues, Trim! said my uncle Toby- 
Am I to set them down, an' please your honour? quoth the Corporal. 
-But they must be taken in their ranks, replied my uncle Toby; for of them all, Trim, that which wins me most, and which is a security for all the rest, is the compassionate turn and singular 
[Page 131]
humanity of her character-I protest, added my uncle Toby, looking up, as he protested it, towards the top of the ceiling-That was I her brother, Trim, a thousand fold, she could not make more constant or more tender enquiries after my sufferings-though now no more. 
The Corporal made no reply to my uncle Toby's protestation, but by a short cough-he dip'd the pen a second time into the inkhorn; and my uncle Toby, pointing with the end of his pipe as close to the top of the sheet at the left hand corner of it, as he could get it-the Corporal wrote down the word 
HUMANITY----thus. 

[Page 132]
Prithee, Corporal, said my uncle Toby, as soon as Trim had done it-how often does Mrs. Bridget enquire after the wound on the cap of thy knee, which thou received'st at the battle of Landen? 
She never, an' please your honour, enquires after it at all. 
That, Corporal, said my uncle Toby, with all the triumph the goodness of his nature would permit-That shews the difference in the character of the mistress and maid-had the fortune of war allotted the same mischance to me, Mrs. Wadman would have enquired into every circumstance relating to it a 
[Page 133]
hundred times-She would have enquired, an' please your honour, ten times as often about your honour's groin- The pain, Trim, is equally excruciating, -and Compassion has as much to do with the one as the other- 
-God bless your honour! cried the Corporal-what has a woman's compassion to do with a wound upon the cap of a man's knee? had your honour's been shot into ten thousand splinters at the affair of Landen, Mrs. Wadman would have troubled her head as little about it as Bridget; because, added the Corporal, lowering his voice and speaking very distinctly, as he assigned his reason- 

[Page 134]
"" 
My uncle Toby gave a long whistle -but in a note which could scarce be heard across the table. 
The Corporal had advanced too far to retire-in three words he told the rest- 
My uncle Toby laid down his pipe as gently upon the fender, as if it had been spun from the unravellings of a spider's web- 
-Let us go to my brother Shandy's, said he. 

[Page 135]

CHAP. XXXII. 
There will be just time, whilst my uncle Toby and Trim are walking to my father's, to inform you, that Mrs. Wadman had, some moons before this, made a confident of my mother; and that Mrs. Bridget, who had the burden of her own, as well as her mistress's secret to carry, had got happily delivered of both to Susannah behind the garden-wall. 
As for my mother, she saw nothing at all in it, to make the least bustle about -but Susannah was sufficient by herself for all the ends and purposes you could possibly have, in exporting a family 
[Page 136]
secret; for she instantly imparted it by signs to Jonathan-and Jonathan by tokens to the cook, as she was basting a loin of mutton; the cook sold it with some kitchen fat to the postillion for a groat, who truck'd it with the dairy maid for something of about the same value-and though whisper'd in the hay-loft, Fame caught the notes with her brazen trumpet and sounded them upon the house-top-In a word, not an old woman in the village or five miles round, who did not understand the difficulties of my uncle Toby's siege, and what were the secret articles which had delay'd the surrender.- 
My father, whose way was to force every event in nature into an hypothesis, 
[Page 137]
by which means never man crucified Truth at the rate he did-had but just heard of the report as my uncle Toby set out; and catching fire suddenly at the trespass done his brother by it, was demonstrating to Yorick, notwithstanding my mother was sitting by-not only, "" but that every evil and disorder in the world of what kind or nature soever, from the first fall of Adam, down to my uncle Toby's (inclusive) was owing one way or other to the same unruly appetite. 
Yorick was just bringing my father's hypothesis to some temper, when my uncle Toby entering the room with marks 
[Page 138]
of infinite benevolence and forgiveness in his looks, my father's eloquence rekindled against the passion-and as he was not very nice in the choice of his words when he was wroth-as soon as my uncle Toby was seated by the fire, and had filled his pipe, my father broke out in this manner. 

[Page 139]

CHAP. XXXIII. 
-That provision should be made for continuing the race of so great, so exalted and godlike a Being as man-I am far from denying- but philosophy speaks freely of every thing; and therefore I still think and do maintain it to be a pity, that it should be done by means of a passion which bends down the faculties, and turns all the wisdom, contemplations, and operations of the soul backwards-a passion, my dear, continued my father, addressing himself to my mother, which couples and equals wise men with fools, and makes us come out of our caverns and hiding-places more like satyrs and four-footed beasts than men. 

[Page 140]
I know it will be said, continued my father (availing himself of the Prolepsis) that in itself, and simply taken-like hunger, or thirst, or sleep-'tis an affair neither good or bad-or shameful or otherwise. -Why then did the delicacy of Diogenes and Plato so recalcitrate against it? and wherefore, when we go about to make and plant a man, do we put out the candle? and for what reason is it, that all the parts thereof-the congredients -the preparations-the instruments, and whatever serves thereto, are so held as to be conveyed to a cleanly mind by no language, translation, or periphrasis whatever? 
-The act of killing and destroying a man, continued my father raising his voice-and turning to my uncle Toby- 
[Page 141]
you see, is glorious-and the weapons by which we do it are honourable-We march with them upon our shoulders- We strut with them by our sides-We gild them-We carve them-We in-lay them-We enrich them- Nay, if it be but a scoundril cannon, we cast an ornament upon the breech of it.- 
-My uncle Toby laid down his pipe to intercede for a better epithet- and Yorick was rising up to batter the whole hypothesis to pieces- 
-When Obadiah broke into the middle of the room with a complaint, which cried out for an immediate hearing. 
The case was this: 

[Page 142]
My father, whether by ancient custom of the manor, or as improprietor of the great tythes, was obliged to keep a Bull for the service of the Parish, and Obadiah had led his cow upon a pop-visit to him one day or other the preceeding summer-I say, one day or other-because as chance would have it, it was the day on which he was married to my father's house-maid-so one was a reckoning to the other. Therefore when Obadiah's wife was brought to bed-Obadiah thanked God- 
-Now, said Obadiah, I shall have a calf: so Obadiah went daily to visit his cow. 

[Page 143]
She'll calve on Monday-on Tuesday -or Wednesday at the farthest- 
The cow did not calve-no-she'll not calve till next week-the cow put it off terribly-till at the end of the sixth week Obadiah's suspicions (like a good man's) fell upon the Bull. 
Now the parish being very large, my father's Bull, to speak the truth of him, was no way equal to the department; he had, however, got himself, somehow or other, thrust into employment-and as he went through the business with a grave face, my father had a high opinion of him. 

[Page 144]
-Most of the townsmen, an' please your worship, quoth Obadiah, believe that 'tis all the Bull's fault- 
-But may not a cow be barren? replied my father, turning to Doctor Slop. 
It never happens: said Dr. Slop, but the man's wife may have come before her time naturally enough-Prithee has the child hair upon his head?-added Dr. Slop- 
-It is as hairy as I am; said Obadiah. -Obadiah had not been shaved for three weeks-Wheu -- u ---- u -------- cried my father; beginning the sentence with an exclamatory 
[Page 145]
whistle-and so, brother Toby, this poor Bull of mine, who is as good a Bull as ever p-ss'd, and might have done for Europa herself in purer times -had he but two legs less, might have been driven into Doctors Commons and lost his character-which to a Town Bull, brother Toby, is the very same thing as his life- 
L--d! said my mother, what is all this story about?- 
A COCK and a BULL, said Yorick-And one of the best of its kind, I ever heard. 

The End of the Ninth Volume.

NOTES
1 * The Romish Rituals direct the baptizing of the child, in cases of danger, before it is born;-but upon this proviso, That some part or other of the child's body be seen by the baptizer: -But the Doctors of the Sorbonne, by a deliberation held amongst them, April 10, 1733,-have enlarged the powers of the midwives, by determining, That tho' no part of the child's body should appear,- that baptism shall, nevertheless, be administered to it by injection,-par le moyen d' une petite Canulle. - Anglicè a squirt. -'Tis very strange that St. Thomas Aquinas, who had so good a mechanical head, both for tying and untying the knots of school divinity, -should, after so much pains bestowed upon this,-give up the point at last, as a second La chose impossible,-"" - O Thomas! Thomas! 
2 * Vide Deventer, Paris Edit. 4to, 1734. p. 366. 
3 * Pentagraph, an instrument to copy prints and pictures mechanichally, and in any proportion. 
4 * The author is here twice mistaken;-for Lithopædus should be wrote thus, Lithopædii Senonensis Icon. The second mistake is, that this Lithopædus is not an author, but a drawing of a petrified child. The account of this, published by Albosius, 1580, may be seen at the end of Cordæus's works in Spachius. Mr. Tristram Shandy has been led into this error, either from seeing Lithopædus's name of late in a catalogue of learned writers in Dr. ---, or by mistaking Lithopædus for Trinecavellius,-from the too great similitude of the names. 
5 * Vid. Vol. II. p. 159. 
6 * Vid. Locke. 
7 * As Hafen Slawkenbergius de Nasis is extremely scarce, it may not be unacceptable to the learned reader to see the specimen of a few pages of his original; I will make no reflection upon it, but that his story-telling Latin is much more concise than his philosophic-and, I think, has more of Latinity in it. 
8 * Hafen Slawkenbergius means the Benedictine nuns of Cluny, founded in the year 940, by Odo, abbé de Cluny. 
9 * Mr. Shandy's compliments to orators-is very sensible that Slawkenbergius has here changed his metaphor-which he is very guilty of;-that as a translator, Mr. Shandy has all along done what he could to make him stick to it-but that here 'twas impossible. 
10 * Nonnulli ex nostratibus eadem loquendi formulâ utun. Quinimo et Logistæ & Canonistæ- Vid. Parce Bar e Jas in d. L. Provincial.Constitut. de conjec. vid. Vol. Lib 4. Titul. 1. N. 7. quà etiam in re conspir. Om. de Promontorio Nas. Tichmak. ff. d. tit. 3. fol. 189. passim. Vid. Glos. de contrahend. empt. &c. nec non J. Scrudr. in cap. §. refut. ff. per totum. cum his cons. Rever. J. Tubal, Sentent. & Prov. cap. 9. ff. 11, 12. obiter. V. et Librum, cui Tit. de Terris & Phras. Belg. ad finem cum, Comment. N. Bardy Belg. Vid. Scrip. Argentotarens. de Antiq. Ecc. in Episc. Archiv. fid. coll. per Von Jacobum Koinshoven Folio Argent. 1583, præcip. ad finem. Quibus add. Rebuff in L. obvenire de Signif. Nom. ff. fol. & de Jure, Gent. & Civil. de protib. aliena feud. per federa, test. Joha. Luxius in prolegom. quem velim videas, de Analy. Cap. 1, 2, 3. Vid. Idea. 
11 * Hæc mira, satisque horrenda. Planetarum coitio sub Scarpio Asterismo in nonâ cœli statione, quam Arabes religioni deputabant efficit Martinum Lutherum sacrilegum hereticum, christianæ religionis hostem acerrimum atque prophanum, ex horoscopi directione ad Martis coitum, religiosistimus obiit, ejus Anima seclestissima ad infernos navigavit-ab Alecto, Tisiphone et Magera flagellis igneis cruciata pereniter. -Lucas Gauricus in Tractatu astrologico de præteritis multorum hominum accidentibus per genituras examinatis. 
12 * Ce Fœtus n'etoit pas plus grand que la paúme de la main; mais son pere l'ayant éxaminè en qualitè de Médecin, & ayant trouvé que c'etoit quelque chose de plus qu'un Embryon, le fit transporter tout vivant à Rapallo, ou il le fit voir à Jerôme Bardi & à d'autres Medecins du lieu. On trouva qu'il ne lui manquoit rien d'essentiel a la vie; & son pere pour faire voir un essai de son expérience, entreprit d'achever l'ouvrage de la Nature; & de travailler a la formation de l'Enfant avec le même artifice que celui dont on se sert pour faire éclorre les Poulets en Egypte. Il instruisit une Nourisse de tout ce qu'elle avoit à faire, & ayant fait mettre son fil dans un four proprement accommodè, il reuissit à l'élever et a lui faire prendre ses accroissemens necessaires, par l'uniformité d'une chaleur) étrangére mesurée éxactement sur les dégrés d'un Thermométre, ou d'un autre instrument équivalent. (Vide Mich. Giustinian, ne gli Scritt. Liguri à Cart 223. 488.) On auroit toujours été très-satisfait de l'industrie d'un Pere si experimenté dans l'Art de la Generation, quand il n'auroit pû prolonger la vie a son fils que pour quelques mois, ou pour peu d'années. Mais quand on se represente que l'Enfant a vecu pres de quatre-vingts ans, & que il a composé quatre-vingts Ouvrages differents tous fruits d'une longue lecture,-il faut convenir que tout ce qui est incroyable n'est pas toujours faux, & que la Vraisemblance n'est pas toujours du coté de la Veritè. Il n'avoit que dix-neuf ans lors qu'il composa Gonopsychanthropologia de Origine Animæ humanæ. (Les Enfans celebres, revûs & corriges par M. De la Monnoye de l'Academie Françoise.) 
13 * Vide Menagiana, vol. I. 
14 * Vid Swinburn on Testaments, Part 7. § 8. 
15 † Vid. Brook Abridg. Tit. Administr. N. 47. 
16 * Mater non numeratur inter consanguineos. Bald. in ult. C. de Verb. signific. 
17 * Vide Brook Abridg. tit. Administr. N. 47. 
18 * This book my father would never consent to publish; 'tis in manuscript, with some other tracts of his, in the family, all, or most of which will be printed in due time. 
19 † Mr. Shandy is supposed to mean ***** *** ***, Esq; member for ******,-and not the Chinese Legislator. 
20 * ?a????? ??s??, ?a? d?s?at?? ??a??a??, ?? ????a?a ?a???s??. Philo.
21 † ?a t?µ??µ??a t?? ????? ????????tata, ?a? ????a??????tata ???a?. 
22 ‡ ?a?a???t?t?? ???????. Bochart.
23 * ? ????, ta ??d??a ????t?µ??ta?. ta?t? ????sa? ?a? t??? ?µ? ??t?? s?µµa???? ?ata?a??asa?. Sanchuniatho.
24 * Nous aurions quelque interêt, says Baillet, de montrer qu'il n' a rien de ridicule s'il étoit véritable, au moins dans le sens énigmatique que Nicius Erythræus a tâché de lui donner. Cet auteur dit que pour comprendre comme Lipse, a pû composer un ouvrage le premier jour de sa vie, il faut s'imaginer, que ce premier jour n'est pas celui de sa naissance charnelle, mais celui au quel il a commencé d'user de la raison; il veut que ç'ait été a l'age de neuf ans; et il nous veut persuader que ce fut en cet âge, que Lipse fit un poem. -Le tour est ingenieux, &c. &c. 
25 * Vid. Pellegrina. 
26 * Vid. Book of French post-roads, page 36. edition of 1762. 
27 * Chief Magistrate in Toulouse, &c. &c. &c. 
28 * Non Orbis gentem, non urbem gens habet ullam    -----ulla parem. 
29 * The same Don Pringello, the celebrated Spanish architect, of whom my cousin Antony has made such honourable mention in a scholium to the Tale inscribed to his name. Vid. p. 129, small edit. 
30 * Vid. Vol. VI. p. 152. 
31 * Vid. Pope's Portrait. 
32 * Rodope Thracia tam inevitabili fascino instructa, tam exacte oculis intuens attraxit, ut si in illam quis incidesset, fieri non posset, quin caperetur:--I know not who. 
33 * This will be printed with my father's life of Socrates, &c. &c. 
34 * Mr. Shandy must mean the poor in spirit; inasmuch as they divided the money amongst themselves. 
35 * He lost his hand at the battle of Lepanto. 
36 * This must be a mistake in Mr. Shandy; for Graaf wrote upon the pancreatick juice, and the parts of generation. 
Publication title:and Conditions


 

