 
Chrysal: Wherein Are Exhibited Views Of Several Striking Scenes, With Curious and Interesting Anecdotes Of the Most Noted Persons In Every Rank Of Life, Whose Hands It Passed Through In America, England, Holland, Germany, and Portugal ... By an Adept
Johnstone, Charles.? Chrysal; Or the Adventures Of a Guinea. 2 v. London: Printed for T. Beckett, [etc.], 1760.
Author:Full text: 
Chrysal
Vol. 1 
Title page 
CHRYSAL; OR THE Adventures of a Guinea. Wherein are exhibited Views of several striking Scenes, WITH Curious and interesting Anecdotes of the most Noted Persons in every Rank of Life, whose Hands it passed through in America, England, Holland, Germany, and Portugal. 



-To shew Vice its own Image, Virtue her own Likeness, 
His Form and Pressure, 
Shakespear.



Qui capit, ille facit.
By an ADEPT. VOL. I.
LONDON: Printed for T. Becket, at Tully's Head, near Surry Street, in the Strand. MDCCLX. 


[Page iii]

TO THE Right Honourable William Pitt, Esq; &c. &c. &c. 
SIR, 
The Publisher of these papers is sensible, that the time devoted to the care of nations, is too valuable to be spared to the perusal of them, yet he should think himself guilty 
[Page iv]
of a breach of the general gratitude, which, at this time, swells every honest heart, in Britain, if he omitted to lay at your feet, a work, in which every occasion of displaying the blessings of a good administration appears to have been sought with pleasure, and dwelt upon with judgment. 
The genius of my author was evidently so averse to adulation, that it would be doing him, the severest injustice, to join any thing to his work, which even envy could possibly pervert to such a motive, by insinuating, that the pictures he draws, in many places, of national good conduct, and the happy state of it, are a panegyrick on present, 
[Page v]
not a representation of imaginary scenes. 
A sense of this precludes me from the pleasure of illustrating his remarks with particular instances; but in return for that painful self-denial, I must be indulged in a profession of the joy, with which I (as must every Briton whose heart feels for his country) congratulate myself, on my happy fate, in living under an administration, in which the flights of imagination of a visionary recluse, dead so many years ago, may be taken for a relation of the real events of the present times. 
Here my address to Mr. Pitt must stop! But nothing can ever stop my prayers to Heaven for 
[Page vi]
the preservation and happiness of a life, on whose labours, the welfare, not only of this mighty empire, but also of the greater part of Europe, do now so eminently depend. 
A Briton. 

[Page vii]

PREFACE, 
By the Publisher.
To acquit myself of the suspicion of presuming to aim at particular characters, in the following Work, should any fancied likeness be thought to direct an application; as well as to do justice to the real author of it, I think it my duty to make known the manner by which it happened to come into my hands. 

[Page viii]
As I was walking one evening, last summer, along White-Chapel, I was obliged to take shelter from a shower of rain, in a cottage near the Turnpike. The family were at Breakfast, at their tea, and as the rain continued, I had leisure to reflect on the advantages of commerce, which thus in a manner joins the opposite extremities of the earth, by bringing their products together: at the same time, that the variety in the equipage of the tea-table, or indeed stool, on which there was nothing of a piece, suggested a just ridicule on the vanity of luxury. 
This last reflection was extended to all the pursuits of man, on the sight of a piece of written paper, that served instead of a plate, to hold their butter, -'Who knows (thought I) but the writer of this, bestowed time and care upon it, and promised himself both profit and fame, in reward of his labour?' 

[Page ix]
This thought prompted curiosity to look at the paper, which, by this time, was scraped quite clean. I therefore, after a few words of conversation, to introduce my request, desired leave to see it, which was readily granted, when I was surprized to find my conjectures, as I imagined, confirmed, by its appearing to be part of some regular work. 
Curiosity had now a stronger motive, than idle gratification! I asked where they had got that paper; and on their telling me, at the chandler's shop next door, though this discouraged me a good deal, I resolved to pursue my enquiry, and went to the shop, as if for some snuff, which, as I expected, was given me on a piece of the same paper. 
The rain still giving me a pretence for delaying there, I entered into discourse with the woman, and among other idle questions, asked her where she usually got paper to wrap her wares in, to which she answered, 'Sometimes 
[Page x]
from the public offices, and sometimes from the booksellers and printers; and when she was disappointed at those places, she was forced to buy brown paper, which was much dearer; though at present, she made use of some old stuff, that had lain a great while, lumbering her garret, having belonged to a lodger of her mother's, who died many years ago.' 
I then changed the discourse, for fear she should perceive my design; but presently seeing her going to tear more, for somebody else that came in, I could not forbear any longer, but offered her brown paper for all the written paper she had, as that was most proper for some work I designed, which she readily agreed to, and sold me her whole stock for eighteen-pence. 
This adventure put an end to my walk, so I took the first coach that went by, and hurried home to examine my purchase, which I found to consist of 
[Page xi]
a number of fragments, upon various subjects, whether originally left unfinished, or torn thus in the chandler's shop, it was impossible to say: and among the rest, the following work, which seemed to have undergone a different, though not much better fate, being blotted in many places, often paragraphs, and sometimes whole pages being erased; and what was worst, this havock was made in the most curious and entertaining part of the whole, the philosophy of the nature and agency of spirits. 
The oddity of this collection made me resolve to try if I could learn any thing of the author, from the woman of the shop, where I had made my purchase; accordingly I called upon her, one evening, as if by accident, and sending for a pint of wine, to set her tongue a going, I no sooner hinted my desire, than she directly gave me the following account, which I shall repeat as nearly as possible, in her own 
[Page xii]
words, shortening it only of expletive exclamations and repetitions. 
'My father (said she) dying young, and leaving his family but poorly, my mother took this shop to help her to bring up three children, of whom I, the eldest, was but five years old. The times being hard, she was obliged to make every honest shift, and therefore took in lodgers, and among the rest, an elderly man who rented the garret to sleep in, and a little turret in the garden, which he fitted up for himself for a work-shop: but what business he followed she never knew, as he let no body see him at work; nor did she trouble herself to enquire, as he always paid her punctually: but she imagined he was a smith of some sort, from the quantities of charcoal he burned, and the constant blowing of his bellows. 
'In this place he spent all his time, often not quitting it for whole days 
[Page xiii]
and nights together, till hunger has forced him to crawl like a starved rat, out of his hole, to get a bit of victuals. 
'At first, my mother was uneasy at this, and imagining he must be out of his mind, or troubled in conscience, she spoke about him to a worthy gentleman, a clergyman, that lived in the neighbourhood; but he coming to see him at a time when he had a clean shirt on, and had eat his victuals and slept regularly for some time before, his discourse was so sensible and pleasant, that the doctor could not help telling him the cause of his visit, as a joke, at my mother, to whom he said, when he was going away, that so far from being mad, he believed her lodger was the best scholar in the whole parish. 
'My mother's good-nature had like to have lost her lodger, for as soon as the doctor was gone, he gave her 
[Page xiv]
warning, but upon her promising never to be guilty of the like indiscretion again, nor to trouble herself any farther about him, than just to give him what he should call for, he consented to stay. 
'From that time he lived among us, as unnoticed as he could desire, following his business without disturbance from any one, nor appearing to give himself the least trouble about that of any other person living, except it was me, whom he taught to read, and said he would make his heir. An unhappy heirship, I am sure for me; for it hindered my marrying Jack Twist the rope-maker, who is now the toppingist man in all Radcliff-highway, and then offered to take me in my shift. 
'But there's no help for that now! Luck is all! To be sure we thought he must be some extraordinary man, for he never wanted money, and then 
[Page xv]
we used to hear him talking to himself sometimes, as if all the world was his own, of building colleges, and churches, and houses, and altering St. Paul's, and I do not know what great things; and one day in particular, I remember he said, before us all, that before seven years, he would hire an army, that should drive the pope and the devil (Lord bless us) out of Rome; for to be sure, he would talk before us, as if we could not hear him, as we would also do any thing before him, as freely, as if he was a cat or a dog! Well as I was saying, it was no wonder, to be sure, that such ignorant, poor folks, as we, should think much of him, especially after what the doctor said, and accordingly build great hopes, upon his promises. 
'He went on thus for near 20 years, no soul ever coming near him, nor he going out, above once or twice in a year, and then not staying above an hour or two at a time. 

[Page xvi]
'At length his health began to break very much, which made my mother often speak to him, not to work so hard, for he had been with us so long, and was so quiet, and paid so honestly, that we all loved him, as if he was our father. But her advice was all to no purpose; he still went on, bidding her not trouble herself, nor be afraid about him. But this did not satisfy her; and one day, when he had been locked up, from the morning before, without having any victuals, or going to bed, she resolved to break through his orders, and call him to dinner. 
'When she came to the turret, which he called his laboratory, she tapped gently at the door, but receiving no answer, nor hearing any noise within, she was so frighted, that she called me, to fetch the kitchen poker, with which we made a shift to force it open, when we found the poor man 
[Page xvii]
stretched at his length, upon the floor to all appearance dead. 
'This shocked us greatly; but we did not alarm the neighbours, as we imagined there were things of value there, that might be displaced or taken away in the confusion: we therefore raised him up ourselves, and after a little while, perceiving signs of life, carried him in, and laid him in our own bed, and pouring some drops into his mouth and nose, at length brought him to himself; when his first care was to enquire for the key of the turret, and whether any one else had been there, or any thing in it stirred: our answers satisfying him, he seemed quite easy, and in a little time recovered, to all appearance, as well as ever. 
'From this time, he changed his way of life a good deal; and though he was much in the turret, which we observed he ever after called his 
[Page xviii]
study, and not his laboratory, he never sat up whole nights in it, as before, nor bought any more charcoal, nor even oil for his lamp, but went to bed orderly when we did. 
'But this change came too late, for about six months after, we found him one morning dead in his bed; though he had been as cheary in the evening, as he had for a long time before. 
'This was a great surprize and concern to us! But what avails grief: we must all die, and he was a very old man. As soon as we were certain that he was dead, the first thing my mother and I did, was to go to the turret, impatient enough to take possession of our heirship; where, Lord help our poor heads! what did we find? only a few great old books, and those papers you got; the very bellows, and tools, and pots that we saw there before, being all gone, and 
[Page xix]
no more sign of a work-shop to be seen, than if it was not the same place, we had been in, but six months before. What he could have done with his things, we could not imagine, for we never observed him to carry them out, so that we concluded he must have burned them. 
'This was a sore disappointment to me, not to mention the loss to my mother, to whom he owed a quarter's rent, beside an account of near twenty shillings in the shop; and seven shillings and two-pence half-penny, was all the money in his pocket, nor did we ever find one penny more after him, though we searched close enough! -Well! patience is a remedy for all things, but death! We were forced to submit; thought I cannot help grieving, when I think of it, to this day, especially when I see Peg Sprout, the green-woman's daughter, from Wapping, that Jack Twist married out of dispair, when I 
[Page xx]
refused him, ride by, in her chaise; like a lady; and it is now 30 years ago! -No! let me see! it will be exactly 20 years come next Michaelmas; I am sure I have reason to remember it well, for my poor mother took it so to heart, that she never held up her head after, till it finished her, in about nine years; though I cannot say, but something else might have helped, for she took cruelly to drinking drams, though as she began it, to comfort her, for this misfortune, it was all owing to that and poor sister Bett, too'- 
I was obliged to interrupt her here; by asking her, what kind of a person he was, or she would have gone on to give me the history of her whole family; to which she answered thus. 'What sort of a man? I'll tell you then for I think I see him before my eyes, this minute. He was a tall thin man, above six foot high, and no thicker than a watchman's staff, as I may say; 
[Page xxi]
then his constant leaning over his work, bent his long back, like a bow, especially as he had no belly to keep it up, for he lived almost upon nothing, so that when he walked, the length of his legs, and his great stoop made him look as if he had no body at all. As for his face, it was as long as my arm, and not broader than the edge of my hand; his eyes were sunk half a foot into his head, and always covered with spectacles, his nose was hooked over his mouth, as his chin turned up an handful to meet that and the constant toasting, over the charcoal, had shriveled up his skin so, that his whole face looked, as if it was covered with scorched parchmentHis dress (for I never knew him have but one) was a black coat, with little buttons all over it; which being made for him, while he stood upright, now that he stooped so much, hung down to his ankles: a broad leather belt, that kept his coat about him; a cloak, which he hung upon his shoulders, 
[Page xxii]
but was so worn, that it shewed his skeleton through every part of it; and an old high-crowned hat. In short he had so little of the appearance of a creature of this world, in his looks or dress, that whenever he went out, in the day time, the mob all gathered about him, and hooted him home, just as the little birds do an owl; and some of our wicked neighbours, when any accident has happened, have often threatened to take him up, and dip him for a witch, though I am persuaded, that was nothing but wickedness and malice, and that he knew no more harm than a baby.' 
My curiosity being thus satisfied as to the author, there was but one thing more, that I desired to know, and that was, how those papers came to have so many blots made in them, which by the difference of the ink, I could see was done long since the first writing, to which she answered, that some time 
[Page xxiii]
after the old man's death, her mother let his apartment to one that called himself a clergyman, and was a great scholar, and used to make almanacks, and other books; that he had looked over those papers, and, she believed, taken out such as he liked, and done what he pleased with the rest; for they set no regard on them; and particularly she remembered to have heard him say, that he would make something of one of them; but she believed, he found it would not do, for he soon after left their house, and joining with those methodists, that were just then come up, went away with them, preaching about the country. 
I thought it but reasonable to reward the good woman's expence of breath, with half a crown, and so took my leave, though with a secret resolution, to give her half the profit, if there arises any, from the sale of the books; not thinking that such a purchase, as I had made from an 
[Page xxiv]
ignorant woman, could give me a just title to the whole heirship, as she called it, that had cost her so dear, as the loss of her old sweet-heart Jack Twist. 
This good-woman's account explained to me, in some measure, the nature of this work, from the circumstances of the author, who, I could see, had been a schemer, who had wasted his whole fortune, in the search, after the philosopher's stone, and having his eyes at length opened to his folly, though too late to remedy it, yet was able to divert the grief of his disappointment, by writing these papers, in ridicule of such notions, and from the sale of which he might also expect some relief to his wants. 
How just this expectation might have been then, it is now very hard to say, in their present mutilated condition; or what could have moved any man, to make such havock in them; without it was, that the orthodoxy of 
[Page xxv]
the clergyman was offended at the author's notions, which he wanted judgment to see, were only a delicate ridicule, of those wild, idle dreams, which some men, who call themselves philosophers, have thought proper gravely to obtrude upon the world, as learning and knowledge. 
But whatever the motive was, the loss is now irreparable, and has reduced the work to the appearance of a novel or romance, almost the whole philosophical part having been erased; for as to the personal application of any thing in it, to the present times, the least attention to this account of the authour, will shew the absurdity and injustice of such an attempt; as it was wrote so long ago, and by a person so little acquainted with the world, that all the stories in it must necessarily be the mere creatures of imagination. 
For the manner in which they are published, I shall only say, that it is 
[Page xxvi]
strictly agreeable to the faith of the text; not one, of the many alterations and interpolations, which were in another hand, being given; but, where-ever I could not clearly make out the very words of the author, I honestly omitted the whole, not thinking it allowable or just, to palm my own words or sentiments upon the world, on the credit of another. 
How scrupulous I have been, in this point, will appear to any one, who shall take the pains of consulting the original manuscript, which shall be deposited in the publick library of one of the universities, as soon as the work is printed. The only liberty I have taken, being in a few notes in the margin. 

[Page -]

CONTENTS. 
BOOK the first.

CHAP. I.

The apparition of Chrysal to an Adept, in the very moment of Projection. His account of himself, and the cause of his appearing to the authour. 
Page 1
CHAP. II.

Chrysal gives an account of the person who dug up his body, in the mine. The particular manner of his acquiring the knowledge of his life, with an explanation of the nature of memory and consciousness. 
7
CHAP. III.

The history of Traffick. His father's advice to him; containing some general observations 
[Page -]
on the nature and end of trade; with rules to ensure success in it. 
12
CHAP. IV.

The history of Traffick continued: His father's death. He continues in trade, and turns schemer. His various schemes end in his ruin. The rise and progress of his passion for Amelia. The base abuse of her confidence, by which he cheated her of the greatest part of her fortune, and afterwards formed dishonourable designs against herself. 
21
CHAP. V.

Continued. He cheats Amelia of the residue of her fortune, and marries another woman. Amelia sues him at law, is cast, and goes for Jamaica. He is ruined, and follows her. 
29
CHAP. VI.

Conclusion of the history of Traffick. He arrives in Jamaica, where he learns that Amelia had been taken by the Spaniards. 
[Page -]
He turns buccanier, and ravages the Spanish coasts, where he finds Amelia. Just as he is going to seize her, he is knocked down by her husband, and taken prisoner. He is condemned to die. He sues to Amelia for mercy; she rejects him with abhorrence. His punishment is changed from death to the mines. 
36
CHAP. VII.

Chrysal pursues the history of his adventures. He explains some difficulties in his own nature. He is offered at confession to a priest. The confession and creed of a native Peruvian. The pennance enjoyned him by a Jesuit. 
46
CHAP. VIII.

The holy father's tenderness to another penitent, who had ravished, murdered, and robbed his own brother's wife. He accepts the spoils as a recompence to the church. He hints a method of preventing the danger of his brother's resentment, and dismisses him with ghostly advice. 
54

[Page -]

CHAP. IX.

The father's rage on hearing that his penitent had secreted some of the jewels. The officer is pursued by his brother to the convent, whither he flies for sanctuary. His reception from the father, and the terms of their reconciliation. The father sends away the judge in a fright. The officer is received into the society. 

60
CHAP. X.


Chrysal changes his service, and embarks for Europe in an English man of war. The cause and manner of his coming that way. The occurrences of his passage. On his arrival in England he is sent by his master to settle some mistakes in the voyage. 

69
CHAP. XI.


The good consequences of a right understanding between certain persons. Chrysal's reflections on his first seeing the publick offices in London. His master visitt a gentleman, who, in the vehemence of his rage against 
[Page -]
certain abuses, hits himself a violent slap on the face. The necessity of decency, and the methods of supporting it, instanced in the history of a pretty fellow. 

77
CHAP. XII.


Chrysal's master gives his friend some hints, that make him lower his note. An uncommon piece of generosity returned more politely, than could be expected from the parties. An odd story of an unfashionable steward. The success of Chrysal's mediation in favour of his late master. 

86
CHAP. XIII.


Chrysal explains some farther properties of his nature. He changes his appearance for the mode of the country; and enters into the service of a noble lord. The sagacity of Mr. Poundage, and his address in business. 

92


[Page -]

CHAP. XIV.

The history of Mr. Thomas Poundage. His lordship goes to his appointment. An evening's entertainment in high life. Chrysal changes his service: his reflections on the ruling passion of the times. 

99
CHAP. XV.


Chrysal represents the company in perspective. Anecdotes of some of the most remarkable persons of the party. A painter-general deceived by his own judgment and eminent taste for Virtu. 

105
CHAP. XVI.


Chrysal gives a farther account of his late lord. The methods by which he had been initiated in the mysteries of polite life. Some sketches of the character of his next master, who gives him to an extraordinary person. 

112


[Page -]

CHAP. XVII.

The history and character of Chrysal's new master. His adventures at the coffee-house. The fun of a modern Genius retorted upon himself, by the grave rebuke of a testy veterane. 

117
CHAP. XVIII.


Some further account of Chrysal's master. His conversation and engagements with two booksellers. Some of the secrets of the trade. Chrysal changes his service. 

125



[Page -]
BOOK The Second.

CHAP. I.

Chrysal enters into the service of the gentleman of a general. Gratitude in high and low life. The modern way of rising in the world, and the happiness of dependance. Influence of Chrysal's master, with his curious manner of supporting it. 
135
CHAP. II.

The history of Mr. William. Some odd circumstances in his conduct accounted for. By a progression equally polite and frugal, Chrysal comes from his possession into that of a celebrated female. 
143
CHAP. III.

The manner in which Chrysal's new mistress received and took care of her friend. How 
[Page -]
she employed herself while he was asleep. Her management of him next morning. 
150
CHAP. IV.

The history and character of Chrysal's mistress. She gives him to a noted matron. Some account of his new mistress, and her manner of managing her family. 
157
CHAP. V.

Chrysal's mistress pays a visit to the last place she could have been suspected for going to. She meets a young lady, with whom, by an artifice, she goes home. Her schemes to ensnare the lady. 
162
CHAP. VI.

The history of the young lady. She is critically interrupted by the arrival of an unexpected person. She is reconciled to her father, who rewards the woman of the house, and resolves to punish the bawd. 
171

[Page -]

CHAP. VII.

The address of Chrysal's mistress, and civility of a constable. She arrives at the justice's, and is sifted and softened by his clerk, and terrified by his worship. Chrysal changes his service. 

179
CHAP. VIII.


She is discharged on proper bail. The labours of Chrysal's new master, in the service of the public, with some of the various mysteries of his office. 

188
CHAP. IX.


An highway-man, improperly taken, saves his life, by losing his reason. Judicial sagacity, and eloquence triumphant over common-sense, and matter of fact. This mystery explained. 

195
CHAP. X.


An instance of his worship's exemplary justice on a shop-lifter. The unfashionable compassion 
[Page -]
and generosity of a sailor. A dispute about superiority of skill between his worship and his clerk, opens new mysteries in the profession. 

204
CHAP. XI.


The breach happily made up by the arrival of company. The evening concluded in character. His worship goes next morning to bear a charity-sermon, and from thence to eat a charity-feast, where Chrysal enters into a new service. Some account of the nature of a charity feast. 

212
CHAP. XII.


A representation of the company. The history of one of the principal members. The modern method of bribing heaven with the wages of hell. 

218
CHAP. XIII.


Continued: The history of a general almoner. His method of making charity begin at home. He converts a noted bawd, but disappoints 
[Page -]
his designs, by too great confidence in his own skill. The character of a clergyman. 

227
CHAP. XIV.


The representation concluded with an eminent man midwife. His motives for taking up that profession, with some unfortunate anecdotes of his practice. 

234
CHAP. XV.


Some account of the officers of the charity. Their care of themselves. They fall out about the division of the spoil. A terrible uproar is appeased by a demand of general concern. The concise manner of passing publick accounts. Chrysal changes his service. 

241




[Page 1]
CHRYSAL: OR THE ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
[BOOK I.] 
CHAP. I. 

The Apparition of Chrysal to an adept, in the very moment of projection. His account of himself, and the cause of his appearing to the author. 
On a day, when long and strict abstinence had purified my body from every terrene incumbrance, and intense contemplation wound up my mind to an enthusiasm fit for empyreal conversation, as I stood with my eyes riveted on the obstetrick flame, in strong expectation of the birth of the mystick child, the first-born of the morning, ready 
[Page 2]
to seize the happy moment, when the earth sufficiently unpregnated with the water, ascendeth white and splendent, that I might compound the pure elements, before they fly from the fire, and so perfect the great work; my eyes began to dazzle, and the power of imagination overwhelmed my soulI saw a blue effulgence break from the liquid gold, and play about the genial vase! -I was astonished! I thought it the substantial form of the son of the sun! I thought the happy moment was come, when the rose of the east should bloom in the desart, and mine the favoured hand to cultivate its growth! I indulged the pleasing thought! I melted in the virtuous joy! and in obedience to the divine impulse, I kneeled to receive the reward of all my labours, the radiant crown of wisdom and glory, from the hand of nature, with every sense and faculty suspended, for fear of interrupting the mysterious process. 
As my soul hung in this extasy, the flame which wrapped the sacred birth in the bed of purification, arose with a glory too strong for mortal sense, and filled the room. My senses sunk under the pressure, and I was dissolved into a trance, when a voice, celestially harmonious, encouraged me to raise my eyes, and I beheld the body of the effulgence condense into an incorporeal substance 
[Page 3]
in the form of a spirit, while a placid shade softened the fierceness of the radiance, and made it tolerable to human sense. 
An holy horror curdled all my blood; but the melody of the same voice, which had before emboldened me to look up, reassured my fainting heart with these words; ""I can see your thoughts; and will answer every doubt which may arise in your mind at the wonders of my relation, without the interruption of your inquiries, as awful silence is the essence of my converse, the least breach of which puts an end to it for ever! listen then in mute attention, nor let a breath disturb the mystick tale!""Damned, damned, pernicious, damning gold! how dearly do I purchase this momentary possession of thee! But let me acknowledge the justice of my fate! I wished only for gold, and now, this equivocal grant of that wish, is the just punishment of the folly, and the wickedness of it.""My son (said he) the day approaches fast, when you will be in possession of the fruits of my honest industry. I leave you a good fortune; and I have the happiness to be able to tell you, in this trying moment, that no wilful private wrong, or public fraud, makes me wish it were, by one penny, lessAs therefore it was acquired in the fear of God, if not abused, it will wear with his blessing. Habit had so wedded me to my business, that I could not leave it off myself; and I bred you to it, to indulge, as I thought, the bent of your genius, and to prevent idleness from tempting youth to follyBut now, that dangerous season is past with you; and the labour of my life has taken away all necessity of labour from yours. Be wise then, my son, and enjoy the happiness which Heaven offers you, without tempting a reverse! You will have riches, more than enough, for every natural want, for every rational wish; and it will sweeten your enjoyment of them, and draw down the blessings of heaven on your head, to employ the super-plus in acts of private benevolence, and public spirit; in which best of employments, the abilities, with which you 
[Page 15]
are so liberally blessed, will find ample room for their exertion; and your pious endeavours be rewarded with a success, that will be an happiness to your life, and an honour to your name. 
""For I must tell you, my son, that though trade adds to the wealth, yet too eager a pursuit of it, even with the greatest success, diminishes the strength of a nation. I am sensible, that this is against received opinion; but truth, when properly displayed, will force conviction. 
""My advice therefore to you is, to retire from business, though not to idleness. You will have a fortune that will make you of consequence in the state, and give you sufficient employment in the conduct of it, without embarrassing your mind with anxiety for more. And, to to enable you to follow this advice with the greater ease, I have settled all my affairs, and shall leave you free from every entanglement of life. This is the advice, the request of a fond father, who desires compliance from his dear son, and would not force unwilling obedience, by any act of authority or command But should the love of business have taken such an hold of your heart, as habit gave it of mine, and not permit you to comply with this request, take, my son, the advice of experience, and hold fast the clue it offers, to guide you through the labyrinths of trade, in which the vivacity 
[Page 17]
of your genius may, otherwise, lose its way. Nor are the rules, I shall hint to you, many to be remembered, or difficult to be observed. 
""There are all the rules I recommend; but in them is comprized more than, perhaps, appears at first view. Do not, therefore, think them too obvious to have been necessary to be repeated! nor let the mention of them give offence, by any seeming implication of personal doubt. 
""As for the first, every misrepresentation to mislead ignorance, or abuse credulity, every taking advantage by superior knowledge, is a wrong to the party so deceived, as every artifice to evade the intention of the legislature is a fraud against the public, nay, against yourself, and every individual who claims the benefits provided by the ordinances, so defeated of their support. 
""The temptations to this breach of honesty, I own, are many and great, and some of them perhaps plausible; particularly in those branches of trade, which seem to bear a more than equal share of the weight imposed for general advantage. But, in opposition to this, it must be considered, that it is impossible to provide so exactly for a thing, of so fluctuating a nature as trade, that the ballance shall not incline, in some one instance; and that it must, by the same motion which oppresses one, be favourable to some other; and so preserve the equi-poise in the whole; and this obviates the only shadow of an argument, that can be brought in defence of this too common practice. 
""The man whose soul is on the stretch to take advantage, in a bargain for thousands, on the Exchange, will be apt perhaps insensibly to overlook an errour that is not to his disadvantage, in a tradesman's bill, or to take no notice of a guinea given instead of a shilling in change at the tavern, though either is as great dishonesty as if he took them, in a manner punishable with death by the laws: not to mention the innumerable little instances of temptation to this kind of wrong, which occur in every moment's dealing. That we may avoid temptation, is one of the petitions of the divine prayer, and never more necessary to be offered up than in this profession, whose constant practice opens innumerable instances of it upon us. 
"" 
I was obliged to hear him; but his words, at that time, made no more impression on my mind, than the whistling of the winds, nor in the least altered my intentions; though I felt no scruple in promising obedience, the breach of which could never be upbraided to me, as I could not think of practising it, before his death should remove the only person who had such an authority. 

[Page 21]

CHAP. IV. 

The history of Traffick continued: His father's death. He continues in trade, and turns schemer. His various schemes end in his ruin. The rise and progress of his passion for Amelia. The base abuse of her confidence, by which he cheated her of the greatest part of her fortune, and afterwards formed dishonourable designs against herself. 
The opportunities which I had long panted for, arrived too soon: my father dying just after I was of age, and leaving me possessed of wealth sufficient for me to exercise my talents on, as I was not blessed with prudence to take his advice, and put it to its proper use, in rational enjoyment. 
I was immediately a man of consequence, and that, not only in my own eyes. I made a figure upon Change; I signed among the foremost in the public subscriptions. But all this did not satisfy me. I sickened at the thought of having an equal, not only in wealth, the darling passion of my soul; but 
[Page 22]
also in the reputation of acquiring it by methods of my own striking out, as I looked upon the known course of business as too slow for my advances, and too limited for my genius. 
I therefore immediately became a Schemer, and entered into every project which my own brain could invent, or artful imposition suggest to me, blindly, wilfully giving up the serenity of an open mind, for the vain appearance of mysterious consequence and design; and making my fortune a prey to every sharking projector who flattered my vanity with promises of success, in the very attempts which had been his own ruin. 
The perplexity in which this infatuation soon involved my affairs, far from opening my eyes, only set me upon deeper schemes. Sporting upon private adventures, taking in unwary confidence, flinging the fair trader, by eluding the restrictions of law, were now too small a game for me: I was entangled, and must cut the Gordian knot by some bold stroke. 
I therefore threw off all restraint, and entered into measures the most injurious to my country, which was then engaged in a just and extensive war. I insured the effects of its enemies, and of consequence gave 
[Page 23]
them information how to avoid its forces. I carried on their trade with other countries: I supplied them with provisions from ours; and at length went so far, as to lend, and procure them money to support the war against ourselves. 
But all my schemes met their just fate. Though I could give their ships information how to avoid our squadrons, yet they fell into the hands of unstationed privateers. My subterfuges for carrying on their trade were seen through, and a stop put to them before I could receive the stipulated profit. The stores I bought for them were intercepted by our fleets, and, to conclude all, the enemy, by one stretch of arbitrary power, at the conclusion of a peace, cancelled all the debts of the war. 
This finished my ruin: I had not only lent them all my own fortune, but had also borrowed much more to supply them, on confidence in their promises, than I was now able to pay. 
In this situation, the advice of my father returned full upon me, and aggravated my distress. But I had no time for reflection; the horrors of a jail stared me full in the face, which I had no way to avoid but by flight, the equivocalness of my character having made every honest man, who was 
[Page 24]
able to assist me, afraid of being concerned with me. 
I therefore immediately raised all the money I possibly could, and embarked secretly in a ship of my own, for Jamaica; Heaven, to make its justice the more signal, using my blackest guilt as a chain to draw me to the vengeance I deserved. 
I must stop here, and look back, to give you an account of an affair, which the precipitancy of my ruin prevented my mentioning in its proper order. 
Much as such a complicated scene as I have described, must have taken up my time and engrossed my thoughts, I had still found leisure for guilt of another nature, though ultimately springing from the same cause. 
I have told you, that my father had acquired his own fortune by industry; but as the greatest industry requires a foundation to work upon, his had been assisted by the person to whom he served his apprenticeship, who knowing his abilities, and confiding in his honesty, upon the decline of his own health, established him in partnership with his only son, whom he thought too young to conduct so extensive a business. 

[Page 25]
My father faithfully executed this great trust, and continued the partnership, till his observation of my unfortunate disposition determined him to make me quit business; when it was dissolved, without the least breach in that real friendship which had so long subsisted between them. Though I did not obey my father's desire, and retire from business on his death, yet my vanity would not admit a thought of recommencing the partnership, as it would have been but a curb on my favourite schemes, and have implied a want of assistance, which, in my own opinion, I was far above. On the contrary, I rather declined too close a connection with him in business; as I feared he might have taken upon him to interpose his advice against any thing, which his narrow fearful temper might disapprove in my great designs; but as I kept up every other appearance of regard, and even respect for him, this shyness was not observed, nor any coolness occasioned by it, in the intercourse of intimacy between us. 
But for this conduct I had another motive, besides regard for him. He had an only daughter, enriched with every beauty and virtue that could mark the favourite work of heaven: she was about four years 
[Page 26]
younger than me, which difference of age had given me an opportunity of treating her with such a fondness, from her very infancy, as raised a real love in her grateful heart, as her beauties did the strongest one it was capable of feeling in mine. Our fathers had seen this growing attachment, with the greatest pleasure, from the beginning, and encouraged it between us, (our mothers both died in our infancy) joining in the general opinion, that the union which had always been between their families would be compleated by the intermarriage of their children: an opinion that was then my pride, and seemed a pleasure to the young Amelia's honest heart, that was above disguise. 
But my father's death, before she was of an age to undertake the care of such an awful state, and a long illness of her father's after, during which her filial piety and love would not admit a thought of any thing that should interfere with her tender regard for him, prevented my happiness from being accomplished, while there was any obstacle that could hinder my evil genius from defeating it. 
At length, after languishing five years, her father died, without a moment's more 
[Page 27]
immediate warning, having been on the Exchange that Day as usual. 
In the tumult of this loss, I was sent for; and no will being found, for he unhappily had not imagined his end so near, nor made any settlement of his affairs, in the confidence of our attachment, Amelia gave every thing into my hands, and requested me to make up all her father's accounts, and conclude her dealings with the world. 
This happened just as my soldiering had begun to embarrass my affairs. My heart therefore, never proof to much temptation; yielded to such an opportunity for covering the losses of my folly at her expence, by sinking the greatest part of her fortune to my own use; never considering, that I might have the whole in a just and honourable way, enhaunced with the greater blessing of herself. 
To accomplish this design, and prepare her for what was to follow, I pretended to Amelia, that I found many difficulties in her father's affairs; and having secreted as much as I thought proper, and could with safety, and destroyed every memorial that might detect me, for all which her unbounded confidence gave ample opportunity, I at length gave her in an account, with the strongest expressions of concern, 
[Page 28]
to find that what I had long apprehended was too true, and her father's affairs in a very bad situation; that I had however, with great difficulty, got together something above 10,000l. and was convinced, that this perplexity in his Affairs, was the occasion of his long illness, and had not left him spirit enough to enquire into them, and make a will. 
This representation had the effect I designed; Amelia's confidence in me would not admit a thought of my deceiving her; as pride, too powerful in the purest human heart, prevented her revealing her circumstances to any one else, who might have attempted to disprove what I said; though indeed it was scarce natural to suspect me of a deceit, that, according to the opinion which then prevailed concerning Amelia and me, could only affect myself. 
She, therefore, with an appearance of surprize rather than doubt, or even concern, acquiesced, and signed a receipt in full, desiring me to destroy all her father's books and papers, as they could be of no farther Use to her. 
This compleated my design, beyond a possibility of detection, and even raised a new one against the poor pittance I had left her, though it was not quite a fourth part of what was really her right: for I had 
[Page 29]
now thrown off all thoughts of marriage with one so far beneath me in fortune, looking upon it as a reproach to my wisdom and knowledge of the world, to make any bargain in which I should not have the advantage: for what I had so basely defrauded her of, I considered merely as an acquisition of my superiour skill in business, and absolutely my own, without any manner of obligation to the person from whom I had obtained it: not that I had lost my desire for her person, (the only degree of love my heart was capable of feeling) but the advantage I had it now in my hopes to obtain over her, made me look upon her as a sure prey to my pleasure. 
CHAP. V. 

Continued. He cheats Amelia of the residue of her fortune, and marries another woman. Amelia sues him at law, is cast, and goes for Jamaica. He is ruined, and follows her. 
Though my whole life was one continued scene of villany, yet in all, there was a gradation, a regular descent 
[Page 30]
from bad to worse; each successful crime opening new opportunities and suggesting schemes which never entered into my thoughts before. 
This was exactly my case with regard to Amelia. While she was in possession of her whole fortune, the highest wish of my heart was to marry her; but no sooner had an unhappy accident given me an opportunity of defrauding her of far the greatest part of it, than that respectful love immediately sunk into loose desire, and my success in the former set my thoughts at work to accomplish the gratification of the latter, on my own base terms. 
To bring this design to perfection, it was necessary that I should get her fortune entirely in my power; which I accordingly formed schemes to accomplish without delay for the success of my former attempt, so far from satisfying my avarice, or raising any sense of compassion in my breast, for her wrongs, had made me look upon herself, and all that belonged to her, as my property, which I was as impatient to possess as if it was detained from me by injustice. 
I therefore took occasion one day, when we were alone together, to drop some words of concern, at my not having immediately 
[Page 31]
by me, a sum of money to lay out on most advantagious terms, which had been that very morning proposed to me. 
She directly took the hint, and said, her little fortune was still in her hands, in the same bank notes I had given her; and if the use of it, for any time, could be of advantage to me, she should feel a greater pleasure in my taking it, than in any profit she could make of it any other way. 
This was just what I wished, and though I could scarce refrain from laughing, at the easiness with which she took the bait, I would not accept of her offer but with this restriction, that I would consider whether the terms proposed to me might not suit her and be more advantagious than the interest I could afford her if I should make use of it myself. I said this with an equivocal smile, which she understood as I would have her, and immediately, with an assenting blush, put the notes into my hand, without requiring a receipt or any kind of acknowledgment for them. 
Having thus gained that which I reckoned the better part of Amelia, and sure, as I imagined, of herself, when necessity should humble her to my designs, as I had her whole means even of subsistence in my 
[Page 32]
power, I directly resolved to close with an offer, some time before made me by a wealthy merchant, of a large fortune, with his daughter, whom I accordingly married a few days after I had got possession of Amelia's money. 
I shall spare myself the pain of any farther description of my wife, than that she was the very reverse of Amelia, in soul and body; and my marriage consequently as unhappy as I justly deserved. 
But I comforted myself with hopes of happiness in the enjoyment of Amelia, whom I looked upon as my own, and only deferred making my base proposals to, till her resentment at my marriage should cool, and I could devise some plan of privacy to elude the vigilance of my wife. Not but I dreaded the first emotions of her anger, which I expected to break out in loud complaints. But I was mistaken, in measuring her soul thus by my own. She scorned to complain; nor did I hear a word from her, to interrupt the riot of my wedding. A greatness of soul, so far above my comprehension, that I attributed it to fear of giving offence to one, in whose power she must be sensible she was. 
But, at the end of the month, I was awoke from those dreams, by a message 
[Page 33]
from her, delivered by a relation of her's, to desire I should pay in her money to him, for which he would give me her receipt. As I was not prepared for this, I believe it threw me into a confusion too visible; but I soon recovered presence of mind enough to answer, that ""Her discharge, Sir! that was when you settled her affairs; but she says, that she, since then, gave her whole fortune into your hands, to lay out for her. And, Sir, my cousin is known to be neither a fool nor a liar; though I fear she has suffered severely for her ill-placed confidence""Perhaps she says so, Sir, (said I) but I know nothing of the matter, and am not accountable for what she says or you think, Sir; and I suppose, if your cousin is not a fool, she has not given her money without something to shew for itBut you must excuse my talking any longer on so idle a a subject; and so Sir, your servant." - The mine was now sprung, and I waited with impatience for the event. As to her 
[Page 34]
demand, I knew she could never support it, as there was no person present when she gave me the notes; and I had negociated them in a manner, beyond all possibility of their being traced. 
While I was hugging myself in this security, the friends of Amelia persuaded her to bring a bill in Chancery against me, in which the whole affair was set forth without any exaggeration. But this I made light of, as I had my lawyer ready, under whose directions I swore such an answer as set her charge entirely asideElate with this success, I thought this the time to pursue my victory, and wrote her a letter, in which I attributed every thing in my conduct of late, that might have surprized her, to love, and despair of obtaining her by any other method; and offered her a settlement above the demand she had made to me, if she would consent to my desires. This I wrote in such general terms, that my letter could not be brought in evidence against me, and the largeness of the offer was only to decoy her into a treaty, there being nothing farther from my thoughts than ever to make her independant of my pleasure. 
This insult only added new fewel to her resentment; and all the answer I received, 
[Page 35]
was by another bill, but this met the same fate, by the same methods, with the former. 
After this, I heard no more of Amelia for some time: but what was my astonishment, when I was informed, that she had sold off her jewels, and other little effects, and was gone to a relation of her's, who lived in Jamaica. This broke all my designs; and despair of ever obtaining her awoke my love, and aggravated my remorse for my ill usage of her almost to madness. 
From this time the hand of heaven seemed to be upon me, every thing I had any concern in miscarried; and to hasten on my ruin, my house was a perfect sink of riot and debauchery; my wife, as she had no charms to excite desire, in a manner publickly purchasing the gratification of her lusts at the most extravagant expence, and living in a profusion that must destroy even a royal fortune. 
Mine, great as it had been, sunk under so many dissipations of all kinds; and I had no resource left as I said before, but in precipitate flight, which heaven made my passion for Amelia direct to Jamaica, to mark the justice of its vengence the more plainly. 

[Page 36]

CHAP. VI. 

Conclusion of the history of Traffick. He arrives in Jamaica, where he learns that Amelia had been taken by the Spaniards. He turns buccanier, and ravages the Spanish coasts, where he finds Amelia. Just as he is going to seize her; he is knocked down by her husband, and taken prisoner. He is condemned to die. He sues to Amelia for mercy; she rejects him with abhorrence. His punishment is changed from death to the Mines. 
I had hitherto varnished over my villanies with hypocrisy, and strove to preserve some appearance, at least, of virtue. But this was a restraint no longer possible, nor indeed profitable to me now, when my flight took off the veil, and alarmed all mankind against me; so that mine was really a state of war with all the world. 
On my arrival in Jamaica, I had the addition to my grief to find, that Amelia had been taken in her passage thither by a Spanish privateer: for she had left England some 
[Page 37]
time before the conclusion of the peace had compleated my ruin. 
This drove me to despair: I was wearied of life; but resolved not to die unrevenged on those who had thus, as I thought, robbed me of my hopes; never reflecting on the improbability of her hearkening to my suit. 
Burning with this project, I fitted out my ship, and manned her with a crew as desperate as myself; resolving, though the war was at an end, to pursue my revenge upon the Spaniards on the defenceless coasts of their American dominions, in which my other passions were urged to haste, by fear of my creditors, the news of my sailing having come to Jamaica almost as soon as myself. 
We therefore set out upon our cruise, or rather piracy, without delay, of which I shall not raise your horror with any further particulars, than that we went directly into the Spanish Main, where we not only rifled all the ships we met, but also made descents on the coasts, and ravaged with a barbarity that was a reproach to human nature. 
The tumult and hurry of this life kept my spirits in an agitation, that gave a kind of respite to my grief, and the spoil we made in our first enterprizes was so great, 
[Page 38]
as to awake hopes of restoring my affairs, so as to enable me to return to England with all the credit wealth could give. 
And could I have known when to stop, I was soon rich even beyond my most sanguine hopes: But urged by avarice, and encouraged by success, I still went on headlong to my fate, which I met in an attempt upon a Town, some way up in the country, the convenience and pleasantness of whose Situation had made it the residence of the richest families in the whole province; as its distance from the coast made them live in a state of perfect security, without any fortification or guard. 
To this place we directed our march, one evening, and arrived at it a little after midnight, with an intention to surprize the inhabitants, and return to our ship with the spoil, before the country could rise to intercept us. 
The first part of our Design succeeded, and we got possession of the town without any resistance; where we committed all the outrages, and roamed about with the licentious carelessness of free-booters, under no command. 
While every one thus prowled about for prey, fate goaded me to an arbour in a garden, whither I followed the cries of women. 
[Page 39]
I was just rushing in among them, inflamed with brutal desire, when-what was my astonishment to see Amelia, in the most magnificent undress, throwing heaps of gold and jewels into a vault that opened by a trap-door into the arbour. I stood motionless at the sight for some moments, in distrust of my senses, but two such objects as she and her riches, soon woke me from my trance, and I advanced to take possession of both, resolving not to discover myself till a more proper time; the strangeness of my dress, that was designed to strike horror, and the blood which, from scenes of cruelty and murder just committed, still reeked upon my hands and face, making it impossible that she should know me. 
At the sight of me, the women all shrieked, and Amelia, as I advanced to lay hold on her, fell into a swoon. This embarrassed me greatly, as I had no time to lose, for our centinels just then sounded a retreat. However, I thought I would wait a little, to see if she recovered, and stooping to raise her, to give her air, I received such a blow from behind, as deprived me of all sense for several hours; when, on my recovering, I found myself chained on the ground in a dungeon. 

[Page 40]
I was some time before I could believe my senses, or conceive where I was: but I soon found my fate, when the jailor coming to see if I was alive, gave me to understand, that my companions had gone off without me, and left me in the hands of a nobleman, who had himself knocked me down, as I was going to commit a rape upon his lady, while she lay in a swoon; and that I had been thrown into this dungeon, that if I recovered, I might suffer the punishment due to the outrages we had committed both here, and in several other places of their dominions. 
I wanted no further information to shew me the horrors of my situation. I saw them all, and aggravated an hundred fold, by the accusations of my own conscience, that could now trace the hand of Heaven in the justice of my punishment, which had thus overtaken me, in the presence, and on the account of AmeliaI wished for death, as my only relief, and determined to seek it: But, alas! my resolution failed me; and I feared to die. In this misery I was dragged before a magistrate, who, enumerating the crimes we had been guilty of, condemned me to immediate deathThis sentence, so much milder than my fears, awoke an hope of farther mercy, to obtain which, my evil 
[Page 41]
genius suggested it to me, to apply to Amelia, absurdly flattering myself, that some sparks of her love for me might yet remain alive, or at least, her goodness take delight in shewing itself superior to my ill-treatment. Base hope, that met its just reward! 
I therefore waved attempting a defence of other crimes, as I was conscious, that I could not make any, but asserted my innocence, as to the particular charge of a base design upon Amelia, at the time I was taken, adding, that "I had the honour of being nearly related to that lady, and that, if I was indulged with a few words with her, in the presence of all there, I hoped I might be found to merit a mitigation of my sentence.""Where (said she, looking round with the serenity of conscious virtue). Where is the person who says he is related to me?""O God, how signal is thy justice! Let me, let all the world acknowledge and adore it!" -And then rising, and 
[Page 43]
turning to her husband, who stood in amazement; 'This, my lord (said she) this is the man of whom I have informed you: This is that Traffick whose base dishonesty obliged me to leave my native country; and so, by that providence which is able to turn the greatest misfortune into a blessing, was made the cause of my present happiness with you. I abjure all kindred with him; I desire he may be examined as to my story; and if he can vary in the least from what I have told you, let me be condemned to the severest punishment, but that of staying longer in his sight, or ever seeing his face more.' 
On this she withdrew, without deigning a look at me: But her words had a proper effect upon my heart, and I resolved to do her justice. I therefore prevented her husband's command, and, in as few words as possible, related the black affair with the strictest truth. When I had concluded; her lord declared, that I had not only confirmed every thing she had told him, but also added many circumstances of my own guilt, which she had omitted, or perhaps not known. 
So complicated guilt seemed to require consideration to find out proper punishment, 
[Page 44]
so I was remanded to my dungeon, but without the least encouragement to hope. The next day I was again brought into the court, where my former sentence was changed into that of being broke alive upon the wheel; and this severity was said to be in justice to Amelia. 
When I had stood some moments stupified with fear, the judge addressed me again in these words: 'Thou hast heard, O wretched man, the sentence due to thy crimes; but great as they have been, mercy extends her hand to thee. The virtues of the illustrious Donna Amelia over-ballance thy guilt, and have prevailed for a mitigation of thy punishment, in gratitude to that divine providence which made thee the cause of her coming among us. Thou shalt not die, because we would not kill thy soul, before thou hast had time to repent of thy crimes; nor shalt thou suffer torture, that thy strength may not be impaired for the labour to which thy life is doomed; for this is the last day that thou shalt ever behold the light of heaven: Thou shalt immediately descend into the mines, there to work out the residue of thy unhappy days, in raising that Gold for the use of 
[Page 45]
others, the insatiable desire of which was the cause of all thy guilt.' 
I would have spoken, in the agony of my soul, to desire death; but I was stopped by the judge, who sternly said, that to hear a word from me would be an insult upon justice. On his saying which, I was hurried away to the mountains over us, and precipitated into this gulph, where I have now been near.- 
Just as he said this, I was obliged to fly away to my body, which the unhappy Traffick had thrown from his Hand, into the vessel in which it was to be raised from the Mine. 
The length of this story will make you wonder, when I tell you, that the spirit of Traffick shewed it to me in a moment, for no longer did the gold remain in his possession; and I am always obliged to attend my body whenever it changes its master. But to understand this, you must be informed, that we spirits do not distinguish our existence by Time, or a succession of parts, as men do; with us, there is nothing past or to come, but every thing is present in one view, so far as the natural course of causes and effects is preserved free from interruption by superior power. 

[Page 46]

CHAP. VII. 

Chrysal pursues the history of his adventures. He explains some difficulties in his own nature. He is offered at confession to a priest. The confession and creed of a native Peruvian. The pennance enjoined him by a Jesuit. 
There is no crime, however black in its own nature, that does not receive an aggravation from hypocrisy; but the highest exertion of this vice is, when it makes a pretext of the best institutions, to promote the practice of the worst actions. Of this I have seen innumerable instances, in the adventures of my present state; though none so flagrant as what I shall now relate. 
You may imagine I felt pleasure at emerging from that infernal abyss into light. There was nothing remarkable in the three or four first stages I went through, my temporary owners being only the refiners and other tradesmen, who purified me from mixtures of mineral dross. 

[Page 47]
I see you are desirous to know how I could preserve my identity, when melted down with large quantities of the same metal. But you must know, that spirits have a power of expanding or contracting themselves into what dimensions they please; and that their life is not confined to any particular parts, as the heart, or head, as in man, but is diffused through their whole bodies, so that any part being separated from the rest, does not die, but that portion of spirit which was in it, at the time of such separation, serves as a life for it, and becomes a distinct spirit, to inform that distinct body, and so on, ad infinitum: For as it is agreed upon, that bodies can be infinitely divided, upon the same principles spirit must also: for it would be most absurd and impious to deny of the superiour, any perfection which we attribute to the inferiourThe enlarging of my body, therefore, by the addition of more matter, or the lessening it by ever so many divisions, makes no alteration in my sameness, so long as my consciousness remains: The former only encreasing my energy, by the accession of so much spirit as informed the additional matter, for we spirits embody ourselves entirely in commixtion, and resolve into one; 
[Page 48]
as the latter separates us again into distinct beings, to animate our separated bodies. 
The first absolute owner to whom I belonged, was a native Peruvian, who had found means to purloin a considerable quantity of gold, part of which I was, and who presented me, as a peace-offering, to an ecclesiastick at confession. 
I see you have a curiosity to know my sentiments on religious matters; but I have told you before, that I am not allowed to make revelations. Sufficient on this head have been already made to man, did not his perverseness distort them from their original perspicuity and perfection. 
As there was something in the transactions which passed, when I was offered to this ecclesiastick, that may be new to you, I shall repeat some particulars of them. 
You must have heard of the authority of the clergy, in all the countries which profess the religion of the Roman pontiff, and particularly those under the Spanish monarchy. Of all the several orders which compose this political hierarchy, those who call themselves the companions of their God, have acquired the greatest power. 
Though this title may appear profanely, great to you, yet they seem to support it 
[Page 49]
by the share which they assume, in some of his most sacred prerogatives. 
To a reverend father, of this order, was I presented, on the festival called Easter. He was seated in a retired chamber of his temple, in the exercise of one of the functions of the deity, hearing, and punishing, or forgiving sins, according to his sovereign pleasure. It is not possible to give you here an idea of the solemnity of this ceremony, in a country where all religion is evaporated into shew. Be it sufficient to say, that the pageantry was such a mockery of the deity, as no other of his creatures, but man, would dare to commitThe man who brought me into this mysterious fane, advanced with fear and trembling to the apparent deity of the place, and kneeling before him, confessed himself guilty of several heinous crimes, in the admission of involuntary thoughts, and indulgence of the appetites of nature, contrary to the rules laid down for him by his spiritual guideBut this will be best explained by instances. The first crime which the penitent revealed, was having tasted a morsel of flesh on a day, when it was prohibited. The father, with a severe frown told him, 'that was a great sin, which he must attone for, by working two days for the church, without hire, 
[Page 50]
and abstaining from flesh, at the same time, though it was generally allowed.' 
He next confessed, that he had beaten a dog belonging to a priest, which had broke into his hut, and eaten the pottage prepared for him, by which means he had been obliged to go to sleep without his supper. At this, the priest knitting his brow into tenfold austerity, exclaimed, 'this is rebellion! rebellion against your God! Do you not know, that the dog of an ecclesiastick, is above the greatest (even white) layman, much more a wicked native! you must make amends!-you must!-or'-The tone and gesture with which he spoke these words, so terrified the trembling wretch, that he instantly put his hand into his bosom, and pulling me out, presented me, to make his peace. As soon as I appeared, the priest's features softened, the tone of his voice fell, and receiving me, with a gracious smile, 'You have not said (says he) that the master of the dog was a Jesuit! thy crime, therefore, though great, may be forgiven! but beware for the future, and remember, that the world, and all in it, belongs to us; and that to be guilty of the least disobedience, even in thought, is treason, and deserves the severest punishment. 
[Page 51]
Proceed! unburthen your conscience! I know your thoughts, but would have you speak them, that I may prove your sincerity. Proceed! I am in haste!' 
The penitent then went on-'O father, be merciful, and I will confess all! Returning from my labour one evening late, I found my door fastened, and no one answering when I called, I burst it in, when behold, I saw father Ignatius in the very act of carnality with my beloved wife Mootaw! I was amazed! and though fear prevented my striking him, I could not forbear thinking in my heart, that he who does those things, can be no god, he must be only man; and I cursed him in the bitterness of my soul; but he was drunk with wine, and did not hear me.' 
'Wretch! devil! heretick! (exclaimed the father in a rage) thou intrude upon the privacy of a Jesuit! thou say, he was but a man! thou think, he could not know thy very thoughts, because he had drank wine! audacious slave! Art not thou, and thy wife his? had he not a right to to use his own? was it not an honour to thee, ungrateful wretch? and darest thou to think a Jesuit is but a man? But it is enough; the inquisition shall teach 
[Page 52]
thee faith and obedience; the inquisition -' 
At that tremendous word, the wretch, half dead with fear, fell at his feet, crying out, 'O father, O God, O king, forgive, forgive! (and pulling out of his bosom the rest of his gold) take this, O lord, from your poor slave, and forgiveTake this, which I got at the peril of my life, and saved to buy the liberty of my dear child, whom my master took from me; take it, and forgive; let her still be a slave; let me never see her more! But O the inquisition! O forgive, forgive!' 
The priest, mollified at the sight of the gold, replied, 'Thou knowest my compassion, but thou abusest it, and thy crimes are almost too great for mercy. In hope thou wilt amend, and transgress so no more, I will forgive thee now: but thou must be punished: Hast thou no more gold?' -'O, father, no more, no more! and this I saved to redeem my dear child: O let me get my child!' '-What! insolent! dost thou presume to capitulate? thou shalt be punished: Instead of getting back thy daughter, thou shalt bring me thy son, whom I saw yesterday, when I bade thee come to confession. The boy I blessed, and kissed upon my knee.' -'O father, 
[Page 53]
father, take all the gold, and let my daughter remain: But spare my son; he is too young, O father, too young for thee.' -'The inquisition!' -'O take him, father, take him, take all, but spare me; I fly to bring my child to thee; O spare me from the inquisition!' -''Tis well; be comforted; thy sins shall be forgiven; prhaps, if thou behavest well, thy son may also be restored. I fear thou hast forgotten thy Christian faith; let me hear thee repeat thy creed.' -The man, somewhat reassured, to hear that he should escape the inquisition, and comforted with the hope of having his son restored, began thus-'I believe that God made the world, and all things in it, for my lords the Jesuits; and that I must worship him, by obeying them, and saying the prayers they direct me, to the saints, and the blessed virgin, the mother of God, and above all, to the great saint Ignatius Loyola. But if I disobey their commands in any thing, or repine at their service, or think, that I must obey the viceroy before them, I shall be burned to death in the inquisition here, and the great devil will burn me for ever, after I am dead.' -'Well, son, remember and practise thy creed, and thy sins 
[Page 54]
shall be forgiven thee: Go and bring the boy when it is dark.' 
CHAP. VIII. 

The holy father's tenderness to another penitent, who had ravished, murdered, and robbed his own brother's wife. He accepts the spoils as a recompence to the church. He hints a method of preventing the danger of his brother's resentment, and dismisses him with ghostly advice. 
The severity with which the Jesuit required satisfaction for the imaginary faults of the poor Peruvian, may, perhaps, lead you to think, that his zeal would be inexorable to real crimes; but the following account will shew you, that it was no such thing, and that he looked upon nothing as a crime, which was not detrimental to the power, or temporal interest, of his societyThe next penitent who approached the mercy-seat, was a commander in the army. He advanced with a military intrepidity, and kneeling down in form, Father (said he) I have a long reckoning to make, and some of the articles are rather 
[Page 55]
heavy. My son (replied the priest) you have had experience of the indulgence of the church, and that no crimes are too black for her mercy, on proper penitence. Proceed then, and open your wounds to your physician; nor fear the efficacy of his medicines. 
'You know then, Father (said the penitent) that I have long burned with a passion for the wife of my brother the judge. It was the subject of my last confession.' - 'I remember it right well (replied the father) and you may remember also what ghostly, yet comfortable advice I gave you, to strive against and suppress it, if you could.' -'True, father; but I told you then, that I knew it would be in vain for me to strive, as I was resolved to enjoy her, though at the hazard of my life.' -'But, son, did I not comfort you, by saying, that if you found it in vain to strive, and could not live without her, as life was the greatest good, in this world, it was just that you should preserve yours, by obtaining what you were so violently set upon, but always to be careful that you conducted matters so, as not to give offence by your success.' -'Ah! but father, that was not in my power: She was deaf to all my entreaties; and that threw 
[Page 56]
me into such despair, that, not able to wait any longer, I have this very morning had recourse to force.' -'That was really bad, if it could have been avoided; but, as you would not have forced her, if she would have complied willingly, that alters the case very much in your favour, and perhaps she put you to that trouble, only to save the appearance of her own virtue, and if so, you have both acted right, and there is no harm done, provided the affair is not disclosed.' 
'O, father, that is the thing; I was afraid of that; and as her husband had always been a father to me, and all my future hopes depended on him, I so greatly dreaded her telling him, that, to prevent it, as soon as I had enjoyed her, I cut her throat.' 
'Murder! O fie; it is an heinous crime: blood calls for blood: your case is terrible.' -'I feared so, father; but I depended on your tenderness; and as I did not think it reasonable, that I should have all the pleasure of the crime, and you only the trouble of forgiving, I I stripped her of these jewels, which give me leave to offer you.' 
'You are a prudent man, my son; I thought you would act with discretion. 
[Page 57]
I accept the jewels, as a peace-offering to the holy church, for your sins; and as the value of them (indeed they are costly gems) proves the sincerity of your repentance, I shall not hesitate to pronounce your sins forgiven. 
'For though adultery is a great sin, and, in this case, aggravated by rape and incest, yet, as you say, it was not because she was the wife of another man, and especially your brother, that you desired her, but merely as she was a beautiful woman, therefore the adultery and incest come in but by accident; and then, as you ravished her only because she would not comply, the sin of the rape is certainly her's, as I said before; for, if I force a man to commit a crime, I am guilty of that crime, and not he: And again, though murder is a most heinous sin, yet as you killed her, not merely to indulge a murderous intent, but to prevent her discovering your having forced her, and so ruining you, the intention quite alters the nature of the fact, and makes it but self-preservation, which is the first law of nature. And lastly, as you took the jewels, not with a design to rob her, but to offer them to the church, and accordingly have brought them, that conclusion sanctifies 
[Page 58]
the whole action, and makes your peace with heaven. 
'For know, my son, that crimes which respect man only, as in your case, rape, adultery, incest, murder, and robbery, though bad in themselves, 'tis true, yet are a pleasure to the church to forgive, to a faithful and penitent son, who believes all her doctrines, and pays due obedience to her clergy, the vicegerents of God on earth, the receivers of her revenues, and dispensers of her favours, and vengeance; to whom all earthly power is subservient, who are the kings of kings, and lords of the world.' - This, my son, is the doctrine of our holy church, as delivered by the most learned fathers of our order, in the belief of which you will be safe from all the powers of hell: do what you will, while you pay faith and obedience to the church, she will pardon all your sins.'- 
When he had concluded his instructions, with this pious exhortation, and sealed his absolution with a blessing, the purified saint arose, and said, 'Holy father, thou hast set my soul at ease, with regard to hereafter, but still I fear for this world. It unfortunately happened, that I was seen in the fact by a servant who escaped me, or I should have charmed her silence 
[Page 59]
too; and now I apprehend she will inform my brother.' -'This is unlucky, most unlucky (replied the priest) I know not what to advise; I am utterly at a loss: If you should prevent her malice, and accuse her of the fact.' -'O, but father, the rape; there may be appearances of that, which would disprove my charge against a woman.' -'Mistake me not, my son, I did not advise any such thing! heaven forbid that I should advise to bear false witness against an innocent life; I am utterly at a loss:' -'Suppose, father, I should still strive to prevent my fears, by taking off my brother, as I cannot find her: this is the only way to make me easy; ha, father; is not that an happy thought; I wish it had occurred sooner, and then I should have given you but the one trouble.' -'Why, truly, son, the dead neither make nor receive discoveries; and self-preservation will certainly justify any thing, as I have said before: but I must not advise you, your own genius is ready, and can improve an hint; I must know nothing, till the affair is done: all I can say, is, that work unfinished had better never have been begun. 

[Page 60]
'Adieu, my son, my blessing waits on all your undertakings. But be sure to hold the indulgent mercy of the church in grateful remembrance.' 
The officer went away, happy in having lightened the burthen that was upon his conscience, and big with the pious project of making the murder of his brother the first-fruits of his regeneration. He was the last penitent of that morning, and as soon as he was gone, his ghostly director retired to mortify his appetites in the refectory of the convent. 
CHAP. IX. 

The father's rage on hearing that his penitent had secreted some of the jewels. The officer is pursued by his brother to the convent, whither he flies for sanctuary. His reception from the father, and the terms of their reconciliation. The father sends away the judge in a fright. The officer is received into the society. 
The honours of this world may be said to be placed upon an hill, the ascent to which is through different paths, 
[Page 61]
the one, which virtue leads through, difficult and long, but certain; the other short and easy, but dangerous and deceitful, yet still by much the most frequented, vice, the guide through it, using all her allurements to decoy unwary adventurers, and magnifying every instance of success so highly, as to make the numberless miscarriages overlooked. 
The great value of the jewels, which the officer had presented to my master, took up so much of his thoughts, that as soon as he had finished his collation, he retired to his cell, to meditate on the farther advantages he might make of this affair. 
While he was in this pleasing employment, another ecclesiastick entered, to acquaint him with the murder and robbery of the judge's wife, and among other particulars of the story, said, that her crucifix, thought to be the richest in lay possession in all Peru, had been taken from her'That crucifix!' exclaimed my master starting, for he knew it well, and had long paid his devotions to it, and now to be cheated thus of it, when he thought it so justly his due, provoked him almost to madness) 'That crucifix taken too! Damned! murderous! deceitful 
[Page 62]
villain! villain, on all sides! But I will be revenged!"- 
The other priest understood not what he meant, and was just going to enquire, when in rushed the captain, all aghast. 'O father! father! (said he, as soon as he could speak) sanctuary! sanctuary! my brother is at the gate, with all the officers of justice!' -At this the father grin'd an insulting smile, and beckoning to the other priest to withdraw, 'Wretch, (said he) thou sacriledgious wretch! how could'st thou dare to enter these holy walls, violated by thy guilt? Did'st thou not fear the fate of Ananias and Sapphira? -As thou did'st deceive me, with thy feigned penitence, and hast lied to the Lord, in concealing what thou had'st most justly devoted to him, I revoke the absolution I gave thee, and will deliver thee to justice, to receive the punishment due to thy crimes. These holy walls afford no sanctuary to sacriledge!' 
The poor criminal stood confounded at reproaches, which he dared not interrupt, though he could not comprehend the cause or meaning of them. At length, when the priest had exclaimed himself out of breath, the trembling wretch replied, 'O father! what can have kindled thy wrath 
[Page 63]
against me? I have committed no crime, since thy absolution purged my soul! I was only going towards my brother's house, when I met him, and the servant with him, with all the officers of justice, in search of me, on which I fled directly to you for sanctuary.' 'I grant no sanctuary to sacriledge.' -'What sacriledge, O father?' -'The crucifix, deceitful wretch! Where is thy sister's crucifix? Hast thou not defrauded the church of her due? Did'st thou not say, that thou tookedst thy sister's jewels, only to make a peace-offering for thy sins, and then to secrete, thus, the most valuable part of them! This is defrauding the labourer of his hire! This is defrauding the church of her rites, without making the proper compensation! And what can be greater sacriledge?' 
Just at these words, a knocking at the gate awoke the penitent from his amaze, and made him apprehend that he had not a minute to lose; he therefore, with the readiest presence of mind replied,-'The crucifix, father! you astonish me! did I not give it to you?' -And then putting his hand into his bosom, and pulling it out with a look of surprize, he reached it to him'Forgive, O father (said he) 
[Page 64]
the crime of inadvertency; I meant not to have kept it from you, but only overlooked it, in my confusion! accept it! accept all I am master of, and save my life.' 
'Son (replied the father, softening his voice, and taking the crucifix) I am glad thou wast not intentionally guilty of so unpardonable an offence! I believe, and accept thy excuse. Be comforted, therefore, my son, thy sins are forgiven.' 'O but father, the officers of justice.' - 'What officers! what justice dares attempt to shew her face within these walls? Thou art my penitent, I have absolved thee, and I will defend thee. Sit down, and compose thy spirits, while I repel this bold intrusion, on the peace and priviledge of these holy walls.' 
Saying thus, the father went to the gate of the convent, where stood the judge, displaying the guilt of the fugitive to the holy fathers, to engage them to refuse him sanctuary, and give him up to justice. But my master soon stopped him. 'Cease (said he, with a low voice, and downcast, meditative look) disturb not the peace of these holy walls. The man you seek is my penitent. He has made satisfaction to the church, and reconciled himself to 
[Page 65]
heaven. I come this moment from giving him the seal of absolution. Disturb not the raptures of his soul, that is now joining with the angelick choirs, in the hymns of joy raised in heaven for his repentance. Depart in peace.' 
'How father (exclaimed the judge) can a wretch, guilty of such crimes, so soon have made his peace! He has deceived you, father; he has not told you half his guilt: rape, incest, adultery, and murder! Can they be thus forgiven? So easy pardons but encourage vice.' -'And who art thou, presumptuous man! (replied the father, raising his voice, and putting on an air of authority) and who art thou, that darest thus to call the power of God's holy church in question? What faith, or rather what heresy has taught thee this presumption? Dost thou measure the divine authority of our unerring tribunal by the weak rules of thy blind law? Are not the keys of heaven ours; and have we not the power to loose as well as bind? But I shall not argue more with thee here; there is a tribunal proper for such opinions as thine; there try if thy knowledge of the laws will justify thy heresies; there thou are not judge.' 

[Page 66]
The first mention of heresy had struck such a terrour into the heart of the poor judge, that he was for some moments unable to reply. At last, recollecting himself a little, 'I submit, O father, (said he) I am no heretick; I have no opinions but what I learn from the holy church whose power I acknowledge in all its divine plenitude.' -''Tis well, (replied the priest) 'tis well; depart in peace, and to morrow I will visit thee, and examine the state of thy conscience.' 
The judge then making a profound reverence, withdrew without a murmur, and the triumphant father returned to his penitent. 'My son (said he) thine enemies are defeated. Thy rest is secure here. But such is their power, and so strong the general abhorrence that pursues thy late guilt, that it will not be safe for thee ever to leave this sanctuary.' -'O father, must I be confined for ever here?' -'I said not so, my son: there is a way for thee to go in triumph out, above the power of thy present persecutors.' - 'O name it, father.' -'Take our vows. Heaven has blessed thee with a fertile genius, and steel'd thy soul with fortitude. These talents must not be buried, an account will be required of 
[Page 67]
them; and where can they be put to proper use, except in the service of the donor, in his church; there they will raise thee to that rank and power, which thou seest us enjoy. I see thou yieldest. Resist not the motions of the holy spirit. I receive thee into the fold. I salute thee, brother. From this moment of thine election may'st thou date thy entrance into the highest honours of this world. The day approaches, when thy military knowledge and valour may also be called into practice. Great events are ripening in the womb of time!' -'I yield, O father, (replied the penitent) I receive thine offer with due submission and respect. And from this moment dedicate my valour, skill, and every power of my soul and body, to the implicit service of thine holy order.' -'It is the hand of heaven that leads thee, no longer son, but brother. I will go and acquaint our brethren with thy miraculous conversion and election. Thou hast no more to do but to make thy will, and bequeath all thy wealth to our order.' -'Bequeath, my father, must I die?' -'But to the world, brother, to live with us.' - 'But I have nothing to bequeath.' - 'Leave that to us. Do you only give all 
[Page 68]
your fortune, in the hands of your brother, to our society, in consequence of your admission; and let us find that fortune. I go. The bell rings for vespers. I shall send our notary to you; and when that is done, we will restore our exhausted spirits with a slight repast in the refectory, where I will introduce thee to our brethren.' 
In a word, all things were executed, and the new brother admitted in proper time into the order, of which he has since risen to be one of the brightest ornaments. And the judge, to avoid the imputation of heresy, which his implied doubt of the church's sanctuary had given my master the hint of, was glad to pay half his wealth to the society, as the fortune of his pious brother. 
Soon after this affair was thus happily compleated, my master, that he might openly shew his adoration of me to the world, had me made into a crucifix, in which shape I was fastened to his rosary, and there publickly received that adoration from the knee, which before was paid me only in the heartA repetition of all the occurrences I saw in the service of this master were unnecessary, as the two I have related give a general idea of them, all tending to the gratification of his ruling 
[Page 69]
passions of revenge, lust, and avarice, with the variation only of accidental circumstances, according to the difference of their objects. 
CHAP. X. 

Chrysal changes his service, and embarks for Europe in an English man of war. The cause and manner of his coming that way. The occurrences of his passage. On his arrival in England he is sent by his master to settle some mistakes in the voyage. 
I was heartily sick of such a scene, when the time came for sending me into these parts of the world, where scarcity enhances my value, and makes my power more extensive. There being a war between Spain and England at that time; about a liberty of cutting sticks upon a desert shore, it was necessary to secure a safe passage for the treasure, by establishing a right understanding with the commander of an English man of war, which was cruizing in those seas. It fell to my lot to go on this errand in the shape of a doubloon, into which I was 
[Page 70]
cast, to save the profanation which a crucifix must suffer in the hands of hereticks. 
There was some little address requisite to conduct this affair with the captain, in such a manner as to keep it secret from his officers, to gain all of whom would have been too expensive, beside that he would never trust his sacred honour to the fidelity of so many. But this was readily adjusted. The refinements of modern politeness having softened the natural ferocity of a state of war, and admiting an intercourse of courtesy between parties who profess to seek each other's destruction, the Spanish governor sent out a boat, with his compliments to the English captain, with a large supply of fresh provisions, fruits, wine, &c. 
This necessarily produced a return of civility from the well-bred captain; and in this intercourse were the terms of his connivance settled, as the seal of which I was delivered to him, among a very large number of my fellows, who honourably punctual to his promise, at the appointed time, sailed away from that station, in quest of some ships of the enemy's which he expected to meet elsewhere, and did not return till the Spanish treasure was beyond his reach. 
As this was a compliment of great consequence to the Spaniards, the captain had 
[Page 71]
been so handsomely considered for it, that his desires were satisfied, and he only wish'd to be safe at home, to enjoy the wealth he had so happily acquired. Often would he take me out, for the beauty of my new impression had struck his eye, and gained me the honour of being kept in his purse, often, I say, would he take me out of his purse, and gazing on me till his eyes watered, 'O thou end of all my toils and dangers! (would he say) thou crown of all my hopes! now I have obtained thee I am content! Let others seek that phantom glory, I have in thee the more solid reward, for which I always fought, nor shall any thing tempt me to hazard being separated from thee.' A resolution which he had an opportunity of shewing in all its strength a few days after, when a ship appeared which he thought to be a Spanish man of war. 
As ours was a ship of force, and all the officers (except the captain now) were very poor; and as the Spanish ships are always richly laden with treasure in those seas, the crew was in the highest spirits at this sight, and made every thing ready to attack her, with the most eager alacrity. But the case was quite different with the captain. He was now as rich as he desired, and dreaded 
[Page 72]
the loss of that wealth which he had so long laboured for. He, therefore, retired into his cabbin, while the lieutenants were clearing ship, and taking me out of his purse, with a look of tenderness that brought the tears into his eyes, 'And shall I hazard the loss of thee, (he cried) the object, the reward of a life of toil and danger? Shall I sacrifice the only real good of life, to that chimera, honour? to that bubble lighter than air, and more variable than the wind, the interest of my country? What is honour without wealth? What is a country to him who has nothing in it? Let the poor fight for money, I have enough: let the ambitious fight for glory, I despise the empty name. Let those who have a property in their country fight for it, I have none, nor can have, nor any of its blessings, without thee; and therefore will not venture thy loss for any such vain considerations.' 
As soon as he had formed this prudent resolution, he clasped me to his heart, kissed me, and returned me into his purse, just as the lieutenant came in, to tell him, they could now make the ship, which must be vastly rich, she was so deep in the water. My master made no reply, but taking a 
[Page 73]
telescope in his hand, he went upon the quarter-deck, and viewing her for some time, with great apparent earnestness, 'You are all mistaken (said he) in that ship! rich indeed! and so she may remain for us. That ship is a first-rate man of war by her size: and as for her depth in the water, she is only brought down by her guns which are fifty-two pounders at least. Put about the ship, and make all sail possible from her. I am answerable for his majesty's ship, committed to my care, and will not sacrifice her against such odds. Her weight of metal would blow us out of the water. Beside, I have a packet on board, and must not go out of my way: about ship, and away directly, I say.' 
The officers stood aghast at this speech, that disappointed all their golden hopes. They urged, they beseeched, they remonstrated, that it was impossible she could be what he said: they insisted that the colour of her sails, and the heaviness of her going, proved her to be a ship of trade that had been long at sea; and as for her bulk, it only encouraged them to hope she would prove the better prize, as all the ships that carry the treasure are very large; that they had observed they wronged her so much, 
[Page 74]
they could go round her if they pleased; and begg'd only that they might be permitted to take a nearer view of her, which they were confident would prove her to be what they said. They alledged the opportunity of making all their fortunes; the honour, the interest of their country. They begged, swore, stormed, and wept; but all in vain. The captain had taken his resolution; and would vouchsafe no other answer than a repetition of what he had said before, 'that he was accountable for his majesty's ship, and would not hazard her, to gratify them: beside, the delay of the packet he had on board, might be of worse consequence than the taking of such a ship, should she even be what they said, though he was certain to the contrary, would make amends for. And that, as to going nearer to her, the length of her guns would enable them to drive every shot through and through his ship, at a distance that his could never reach her from; though if they should be mad enough to engage her, his small shot could never pierce such mountains of timber as her sides were barricaded with.' And so, as his power was absolute, they were obliged to submit, and off he sheer'd. 

[Page 75]
It is impossible to describe the distraction which this affair threw our ship into. The officers acted all the inconsistent outrages of madness. The men chewed the quid, damned their eyes and limbs for their bad luck, and went to work as usual; while several poor sick wretches, whose spirits had been so raised by the hopes of such a prize, that they had forgot their complaints, and exerted all their strength, to assist in the engagement, now sunk under the weight of the disappointment, and crawled back, many of them to die in their hammocks. 
But the captain had carried his point, and regarded nothing else: though indeed he was somewhat disconcerted a few days after, when he learned from another ship, that she really was a register ship of immense value, and so weakened by hard weather and sickness, that she could not have attempted any resistance, but had prepared to strike the moment she saw us. This information added such fuel to the rage that inflamed the officers before, that all intercourse between them and their captain was intirely broke of, so that I became his sole companion. 
This lasted all the while we were at a distance from England, but as we drew near home, the captain's stiffness began to bend, 
[Page 76]
and he made several advances to a reconciliation and general amnesty, as he could not but feel some apprehensions for his conduct from his superiors. But all was in vain. The thought of returning in poverty, instead of that wealth which he had disappointed them of, kept up their resentments, and they determined to complain, if only for the satisfaction of revenge. 
This convinced my master, that methods must be taken to obviate their attempts, or he might run a greater hazard at home than he had intended to avoid abroad. He therefore prudently concluded, that the same argument which had been so powerful with himself, would be the most effectual to vindicate what he had done with others, and that it would be better to share the spoil, than risk the loss of all. 
For this intent, as soon as he arrived in England, he took me from his purse once more, and looking earnestly at me for some moments, 'We must part (said he, with a sigh) we must part! but I hope to good purpose. Thou only wast the cause of that conduct which now gives me fear; exert therefore thy influence equally, where I now send thee, and thou wilt excuse my fault, if it is one.' Tears, at the thought of losing me, here choaked his 
[Page 77]
utterance. He gave me a last kiss, and sent me directly away, in company with a considerable number more, to mediate his peace. 
CHAP. XI. 

The good consequences of a right understanding between certain persons. Chrysal's reflections on his first seeing the publick offices in London. His master visits a gentleman, who, in the vehemence of his rage against certain abuses, hits himself a violent slap on the face. The necessity of decency, and the methods of supporting it, instanced in the history of a pretty fellow. 
As the delicate nature of this transaction required some address, he entrusted the management of it to his purser, who had convinced him, by many instances, of his sagacity in the methods of obtaining an influence over the great. 
As soon as my new master arrived in London, his first care was to execute the commission for which we had been given to him; but the person, to whom his application was to be made, happening to be 
[Page 78]
out of town for a few days, that he might not lose any time, he proceeded to settle some affairs of his own; in the course of which, I had an opportunity of seeing into some part of the secrets of his mysterious business. 
The professed motive for his coming to town, was to settle his own, and pass his captain's accounts, between which there was a connection not necessary to be known to any other; for though my late master did not think it consistent with his dignity to be too familiar with his officers, and generally slighted their opinion, if only to shew his own superiority and keep them at a proper distance, with him and his purser the case was quite otherwise, the best understanding always subsisting between them, and every affair being concerted with the greatest harmony, to their mutual advantage: an agreement, which beside the comfort and convenience of it to themselves, had this happy influence over the rest of the ship's company, that it kept them, if not easy, at least quiet, from all murmurings, and complaints of bad provisions, short weights, and such like imaginary grievances, which the restless temper of seamen is too apt to make the cause of much trouble to the purser, and disturbance to the captain, when 
[Page 79]
these happen not to agree between themselves. But as the contrary was the case here, their common interest animated the assiduity of my master, and made him go directly to the several offices and contractors, with whom his business lay, to prepare every thing in proper order for publick inspection. 
On my first going to these publick offices, every thing gave me pleasure. There was such an appearance of regularity in all the proceedings, of ease and affluence in the officers, that I could not help saying to myself, 'happy state, whose meanest servants are gentlemen! whose business is reduced to a system, above danger of confusion or abuse!' But a nearer view shewed things in another light. The first person my master went to, was the gentleman who supplied him with those kinds of cloathing for the seamen, which are by these merry poor fellows emphatically called slops. As he was just going to dinner, my master accepted of his invitation, and sat down with him. A round or two of loyal toasts, to the success of the navy, and continuance of the war, having washed down their fare, and refreshed their spirits after the fatigue of a full meal, they proceeded to business. 'I come, Sir (said my master) to settle the account of the last cruize. 
[Page 80]
Here it is: you see most of the articles have gone off pretty well: but I must tell you, that you are more obliged to some of your friends for that, than you are aware of perhaps; for if I had not prevailed on the captain, to let the ale-house-keepers, and gin-women come on board, and keep the flop-sellers off, when the men received their pay, on going out, you would have had but a blank list of it. But, by this management, the fellows spent all their money in drink, and then necessity drove them to me for cloths.' 
'Here is to the captain's good health (answered the other) and that I may soon see him at the head of the navy: I am very much obliged to you and him, and shall consider your friendship properly. But is there no way of preventing those pedlars from intruding thus upon us? I am resolved I will try: I believe I can make an Interest, (you understand me) that will procure me an order to exclude them: at least, if I cannot do that, I will insist on raising my terms; for every branch of business is now so loaded with presents and perquisites, that there is scarce any thing to be got. A man who goes to a public office, to receive money, 
[Page 81]
runs the gauntlet through so many of them, that if he does not make up his accounts, in a very masterly manner indeed, he will have but little to shew, for his pains, in the end.' -'Very true (replied my master) I have had experience of what you say, this very morning. You know it is some years since I have been in town before: I was therefore quite surprized at the gay appearance of every clerk, in the offices. Our midshipmen, on the paying off of a ship, are nothing to them: So! thought I to myself: this is very well! Such fine gentlemen as these will never stoop to take the little perquisites which their shabby predecessors were so eager for: They cannot want them. Accordingly, as soon as I had done my business, I was preparing to make an handsome speech, and a leg, and so walk off; but I was soon undeceived; and found, to my no small astonishment, that if the case was altered; it was no way for the better, for me; the present fine gentlemen being to the full as rapacious as the former poor fellows; and with this addition to the evil, that their expectations were raised, in proportion to their appearance, so that they 
[Page 82]
must have a crown, where the others were satisfied with a shilling.' 
'And how can it be otherwise (returned the other) while the principals set them such an example of extravagance, and inforce obedience to it in the manner they do: for though their own exorbitant salaries enable them to live with the luxury of aldermen at home, and make the appearance of courtiers abroad, how can they think, that their hackney underlings shall be able to change their dress, with the court, and appear with all the precise foppery of pretty fellows, if they have not clandestine ways of getting money: and that this is the case, I can give you an instance not to be contradicted. 
'Perhaps you may remember a little boy, that ran about the house here, when you were in town last. His mother was servant to my first wife: you cannot forget black ey'd Nan: who was the father is nothing to my story, but I took care of the boy. When he grew up, I thought the best thing I could do for him, was to get him into one of the public offices, for he was too soft for my own business, and this I imagined would sharpen him, and 50l. a year keep him from being an expence to me. Accordingly, 
[Page 83]
I got him admitted as an additional clerk, in this busy time; and that his appearance should not shame my recommendation, I added a London made suit to his country wardrobe, which I thought good enough for him, to wear every day. 
'Well; thus equipped, to the office he went, as good-looking a lad as ever came from a 12l. a year academy in Yorkshire, which had been the height of his education. But I soon found that I had been out in my reckoning, for going with him to introduce him to the head-clerk, whom I had before spoken properly to, in his behalf, I found the whole office in deep mourning, which, as it had been ordered only for the court, and was to hold but for a fortnight longer, I had never thought of dressing him in; but I soon found that I had not a proper opinion of the consequence of the placeFor the head clerk gave me a friendly hint, that it was expected, that all the clerks in his majesty's offices, should shew the decent respect of conforming to the dress of the court, on these solemn occasionsI could not help exclaiming, I believe a little too shortly, What, Sir! upon a salary of 50l. a year? -Sir (replied he) no body is forced to 
[Page 84]
take that salary; and they who do not like the rules of the office, are at liberty to leave it; and then turned off upon his heel'I beg your pardon, Sir (said I, seeing my error) it was an oversight of mine; but it shall be amended.' -'The sooner the better, Sir (answered he) for his lordship will be in the office to-morrow, and he must not see any thing so irregular; and pray sir (turning to the lad) get that fleece on your head shorn a little (his hair hung down, in modest ringlets, upon his shoulders) and strive to appear something like a gentleman. 
'I saw it was in vain to say any thing, and so took the boy away with me; and by noon, next day, brought him again, in all the fashionable trappings of woe, and with his hair shorn indeed, and tied up in a bag, by a French barber, for I would not stand for a trifle when my hand was in, desirous to see how he would be received in his new appearance; but alas! I had forgot that indispensible article of a gentleman's dress, a sword, which I was therefore obliged to send out for directly. In a fortnight's time, the order for the court's going into second mourning, put me to the same expence over again; for the rules of decency were not to be dispensed 
[Page 85]
with; and then, in a month after, it was as necessary to trim his light grey frock with a silver edging of coxcombe, that he might not appear worse than his fellows; all which, with many other as necessary et cetera's, by the end of the first quarter, consumed his year's salary. 
'This enraged me to that degree, that I was going to take him away directly; but the boy had by this time, got some insight into the ways of the place, and prevented me, by saying, that if I would try, but for another quarter, he was satisfied that his perquisites would more than defray all such expences; and so I find they do, for though he is now as smart well-dressed a young fellow as any about town, he has never since troubled me for a shilling: nay, more than all this, he assures me, there are some of his fellow clerks who keep footmen and horses, and have routs and concerts at their houses, as regularly as people of the first rank; and all by the perquisites of a place of fifty pounds a year. 
'Now as all those perquisites are drawbacks upon us, as I said before, we cannot carry on the business on the usual terms, if we do not bring up our loss in 
[Page 86]
the quality of the goods, for it would be absurd to expect, that we should lower our living to let such fellows run away with the profit of our industry. In short, my wife's chariot shall not be put down, nor will I deny myself a bottle of claret to give you, or any other friend, to save all the seamen in Britain from perishing with cold: Charity begins at home; I will insist upon having those pedlars prevented from interloping upon our trade, and so, Sir, my service to you.' 
CHAP. XII. 

Chrysal's master gives his friend some hints, that make him lower his note. An uncommon piece of generosity returned more politely, than could be expected from the parties. An odd story of an unfashionable steward. The success of Chrysal's mediation in favour of his late master. 
My master had heard him out, though not with the greatest patience, and now taking the opportunity of his stopping to drink, 'All this may be true (said he) and what you propose might possibly 
[Page 87]
have been done, and with the effect you desire, some time ago: but matters are altered a good deal, at present, both among the gentlemen of the navy, and here to, as I am told: and indeed, in respect to this affair, those things are made so infamously bad, and rated so high, that no body can speak in the defence of them: nay, it even goes almost against my own conscience to utter them; for only think with yourself, what a bare-faced imposition it is, to make a poor wretch pay seven shillings for a course rotten jacket, when even a Jew shall sell him a sound one, and of finer stuff, for four and sixpence; and every thing else at the same rate. In short, this point is so overstrained, that it will probably overturn the whole trade, in the end; for several of the captains are so provoked at it, that they take every method they can, to prevent the men from taking up any thing from us; particularly, that which I hinted before, of keeping off the alchouse-keepers, and such people, and encouraging slop-sellers to come on board, when the men are paying, by which means they buy good comfortable cloaths, at half the price of our rotten trash: Indeed, one of them went so far, as to buy in a 
[Page 88]
parcel of good shoes, at his own expence, and make a present of a pair a piece to all his top-men, when they were going out on a cruize, as they had spent their money, and could not buy for ourselves, and our shoes were so bad, that the first time they went aloft with them, after they were wet, the rattlings tore them all to pieces, so that it was a common thing to see a man come down bare-footed, who had gone up with a new pair of shoes on. Though it is but just to comfort you, with an account of the return which he met for his kindness, which was no less than a round-robin* 6 to the lords of the admiralty, for his refusing to let them go ashore, and spend their money, in the same manner, the next time they came in. 
'And such a return may their officiousness always meet (replied the other) for meddling with matters which do not concern them: cannot they be content with their own large gains, without interfering to hinder others? But I see how it is: the spirit of patriotism has got into them 
[Page 89]
too, forsooth, and they must be shewing their regard to the publick! What an evil effect will the bad example of one man have! There was a time, when they would not have dared to do this. To say the truth, my friend, this is not the first alarm we have received on this head; though what to do about it, we cannot tell: indeed, I believe we must e'en mend our hands; which, as half a loaf is better than no bread, hard as it is upon us, is preferable to losing the trade quite; in the mean time, I am obliged to you and your captain for your friendship, and hope you will accept of this return.' They then proceeded to settle their accounts, as soon as which were finished, my master took his leave, and went on with his business, which was exactly of the same nature, and concluded in the same way, with every person whom he dealt with. 
As soon as these transactions were ended, his next care was to pass his captain's accounts, which he also succeeded in, without any difficulty, though for this he was more indebted to the chance of a lucky minute, than he had apprehended. For they were no sooner closed, than an affair happened that gave a turn, entirely new, to the whole course of business, in that channel. 

[Page 90]
When the accounts of the next captain came to be examined, the clerk glancing his eye cursorily over them, in the usual manner, on looking at the amount, 'There must be some mistake here (said he).' -'How so, Sir (said the captain, who was present) let me look at the account, if you please. No, Sir, there is no mistake, I believePray where do you mean?' - 'In the casting it up, Sir (answered the clerk) you see, the amount is made to be but 800l.' -'Nor should it be more (replied the captain) I summed up the account myself, and these figures are of my own writing.' -'How can that possibly be, Sir (returned the clerk in a surprize) but 800l. for all the repairs, wear and tear, of a man of war, on such a station, for four years! I suppose then, Sir, the ship had a thorough repair going out, and wants the like now! To be sure, it can be done better, and cheaper here, than abroad, and therefore you were in the right to bring her home, to get it.' - 'Not at all, Sir (added the captain) that was not the case: she had no thorough repair going out, and is come home in better order than she went, as this return of the officers of the yard shews.' -'Good God! Sir, how did you manage?' -'To 
[Page 91]
the best of my judgment, Sir; I laid out nothing but what I thought necessary, and I charged nothing but what I laid out: I mean not to arraign the conduct of others; I only speak for myself. In these cases, I look upon a man as a steward to the publick; and I should think it as great dishonesty to betray, or break that trust, as to wrong a private person.' 
This speech was heard with astonishment, and returned with a cold compliment; as it came too home to many, to meet general approbation; however, the affair necessarily had an effect not very agreeable to some present; for the next captain's accounts arising to near four times the sum of the last, such an immediate precedent made the difference so glaring, that it was impossible to avoid putting a stop to them; though ours, which had been still higher, had gone off smoothly, and without the least remark. 
My master having concluded this affair so happily, proceeded next on the great cause of his coming to town, in which, with our assistance, he laboured so successfully, that the captain's mistake met only a gentle reprimand. 

[Page 92]
I here came into the possession of a new master, and immediately after changed my Spanish appearance for the fashion of the country, and in the shape of a guinea, entered into the most extensive state of sublunary influence, becoming the price of every name, that is respected under heaven. 
CHAP. XIII. 

Chrysal explains some farther properties of his nature. He changes his appearance for the mode of the country; and enters into the service of a noble lord. The sagacity of Mr. Poundage, and his address in Business. 
I am now entering upon a stage, where the scenes are so various, and so quickly changed, that it will require your strictest attention to keep pace with my relation. But to make this the easier to you, and to disincumber your surprize from doubts, at my repeating the past lives of persons, in whose possession I have been but a few moments, I must premise to you, that our knowledge is very different from that of 
[Page 93]
men. I have told you, that we know all things intuitively, without the trouble, delay, and errors of discourse or reasoning. I must now further inform you, that this intuition extends not only to the present face of things, but also has a retrospect to the whole series of their existence, from its first beginning: the concatenation between cause and effect being so plain to our eyes, that let us but see any one event of the life of a man, and we immediately know every particular that preceded it. 
As to futurity indeed, it is not yet determined how far forward we can look into that; some allowing us to have the same power of foresight as we have of retrospect; which was the opinion that supported the credit of oracles in former days. But that notion is now exploded, and men argue, that our foresight extends only to natural causes and effects: but in the actions of man, his free-will so often breaks that order, that it is impossible for us to know this moment how he will act the next, from any observation of the past; and they think they prove their argument by this, that if spirits could fore-know all a man's actions, it would spare them the trouble of tempting him to any particular onesA favourite opinion, this of temptation, in the 
[Page 94]
present way of thinking, as it is a ready excuse for throwing the blame of every unfortunate or evil action on the poor Devil, who perhaps knew nothing of the matter all the while. 
But though the Devil may not be always able to foretell positively, every one allows that he can generally guess well; a power which I mention to you, as I may often exert it in this accountI say, The Devil, to accommodate himself to the general mode of speaking, which refers every action, good or bad, the cause of which men do not know, to some being which they call by that nameBut to return to my story. 
From the Mint, where I put on the shape of a guinea, I was sent to the Bank, where the pleasure I had felt at the beauty and convenience of my new figure was considerably cooled, at my being thrown into so large an heap, as took away all my particular consequence, and seemed to threaten a long state of inactivity, before it might come to my turn to be brought into action. But I soon found myself agreeably mistaken, and that the circulation there was too quick to admit of such delay: for I was that very day paid out to a noble lord, in his pension from the ministry. 

[Page 95]
It was about two in the afternoon, when I was brought to his lordship's levee, where the grandeur of his looks, and the magnificence of every thing about him, made me so pleased with my situation, that I thought I could be satisfied to fix my abode with him for some time. 
He was just arisen, and seated at the fire, leaning on a writing table covered with green velvet, on which lay some books open, and several letters which he had just broke the seals off, and was beginning to read, while a female servant, beautiful as Hebe, poured out his tea at a side-board, and a page, like Ganymede, handed it to him. 
In this easy indifference he sat, casting an eye upon a book, or reading a paragraph in a letter, between every sip of his breakfast, when I was laid upon his table, by his steward, with these words,-'Two hundred, my lord'-'Two hundred, (replied his lordship) the order was for five hundred!' -'But, my lord, the butcher, the baker!' -'What are these wretches to me! Is not my whole estate sufficient for them?' 'My lord, there is not a shilling to be got from your tenants, the times are so bad and the taxes so high! and an ounce of provisions could not be had'-'Then 
[Page 96]
you might have all fasted! I must have money for this evening; I am engaged in a Party, and cannot be off.' -'My lord, your lordship's taylor desired me to speak to you; he is to appear before his commissioners to-morrow, and begs'- 'What can I do? I would relieve him if I could, but I have not money for myself: I can not, will not do without five hundred more this evening, get it where or how you will' 'My lord, I was thinking to apply to Mr. Discount, the scrivener, but he said the last time, that he would lend no more on that estate, without the immediate power of cutting the timber.' -'Well, damn him, let him have it, though it will not be fit to cut these ten years; and, do you hear, get me a thousand to day'-'A thousand, my lord! you said five hundred: I am afraid he will think a thousand too much!' -'Then he shall never have it; let me do as I will; do not I know, that the timber is worth twice as much this moment, if I could wait to set it to sale; I will not be imposed on by the rascal: I'll go myself to my neighbour Worthland directly; he is a man of honour, and will be above taking advantage, though I did oppose his election.' -'As your lordship pleases for that. But then, perhaps, Mr. Discount will call in all his 
[Page 97]
money, if he saw you put yourself into other hands; beside, I am not certain that he will refuse, and therefore I should think it better to try him first; you may do this after. Though I must take the liberty to say, I should be sorry to see your lordship obliged to stoop to Sir John Worthland, after all the expence you have been at to give him trouble. For to be sure he would boast of it in the country, if it was only to make you look little, and prevent your opposing him again'- 'Why there may be something in that: and therefore see what is to be done with Discount; but I must have the thousand at any rate, five hundred of which give to poor Buckram, and bring me the other as soon as possible, for I am in haste out.' -'Then your lordship had better sign this deed first, to save the time of coming back again, if he should do it'-'Aye, let me see it; there: and make haste(And then turning to his page) reach me that paper, this pen is so good it tempts me to write a letter, while I wait for Poundage's return.' And so humming a new tune, he went on with his breakfast without the least concern. 
You are so great a stranger to the ways of that part of the world which deals in 
[Page 98]
money-matters, that you will be surprized when I tell you, that while this Mr. Poundage brought me from the Bank, he had called upon Mr. Discount and brought him to his lord's, to do his business. 
But you must not imagine this was to lend his lordship money. Nothing less. It was only to appear as the nominal lender of 1000l. of his lordship's own money, which Poundage had that very morning received from some of his tenants in the country, and which, if he could not bring it in better, he meant to replace with part of the price of the timber, which he was to buy in Discount's name, who was a creature of his own. 
So remarkable a transaction gave me a curiosity to take a view of Poundage's life, the main lines of which I will just touch over, while you may think him gone for the money, and his lordship dressing for his engagement. 

[Page 99]

CHAP. XIV. 

The history of Mr. Thomas Poundage. His lordship goes to his appointment. An evening's entertainment in high life. Chrysal changes his service: his reflections on the ruling passion of the times. 
Mr. Thomas Poundage was the offspring of a gypsy, who had left him in the straw he was born on, in an old barn near his lordship's father's, his weakness and deformity making her not think him worth the trouble of carrying away. 
The old lord himself happening to be the first who heard his cries, as he was riding by, took compassion on the little helpless wretch, and ordered him to be taken care of at his own expence, and not sent to the parish. 
Such an uncommon instance of charity was immediately attributed to a tenderer motive: a suspicion, however injurious to his lordship, so advantagious to the foundling, that it doubled the care and attendance on him, and made him appear of such consequence, that Mr. Thomas Poundage himself, 
[Page 100]
his lordship's steward, condescended to stand god-father for him, and gave him his own name. As Master Tommy grew up, he shewed all the sharpness and cunning of his race, which old Poundage representing to his lord, as a capacity for learning, he was put to the best schools; and being of the same age with his lordship's eldest son, his present master, was settled as an humble companion and attendant upon him; in which station, the pliancy of his temper soon gained him his master's favour, as his secrecy and discretion did his confidence; no service appearing too difficult or mean for his undertaking, to please his master, especially in the mysteries of intrigue; nor a look ever betraying his success. 
These services naturally produced an intimacy, that opened to him all his master's secrets, and gave him such consequence with him, that upon the death of his father, old Poundage was superannuated upon a pension, and the place given to him, in which he had behaved himself so judiciously, that in about ten years he had amassed so large a fortune, as to be able to supply his master's wants (with the assistance of his own money sometimes) without the scandal of exposing them to any other: a service that amply recompenced to his lordship's honour, 
[Page 101]
whatever prejudice it may be supposed to do his affairs. 
'Tis true, his thus supplanting his god-father and benefactor old Poundage, had not met with the approbation of such as were not well acquainted with the world, and particularly, as the old gentleman, in his rage, had accounted for all his kindness to him, by owning a relation, which he had before strove to fix upon his lord, by many plain insinuations, though he now said he had long before revealed to his ungrateful son, the secret of his birth. 
However, if he had communicated this secret, our son of fortune had kept it so well, that he could now deny it with safety; nor had he profited so little by his father's example, as to be moved with a suggestion that evidently appeared, however true it might be in itself, to spring at that time from resentment. And as he could not expect to reap any great advantage from being acknowledged for the spurious son of one who had many legitimate children to inherit his fortune, he thought it better to confirm the former opinion, by his slights of the claim of Poundage, and since he must be the bastard of one of them, chuse the lord before his servant. 

[Page 102]
But to return to my master. He was dressed by that time Poundage came back with the money, when taking the five hundred for his own use, he went to his appointment. 
As to the other five hundred, which he had ordered to be paid to his taylor, for fear of the wretch's applying to the lord himself, in his dispair, Poundage did send for him, and in compassion to his distress, advanced him 400l. of his own money, for he had not a shilling of his lord's in his hands; for which piece of service he desired no other consideration, than a receipt for 500l. though it might be so long before he could get it back, that he expected to be a loser by his friendship, which Mr. Buckram need not, as he could bring it up in his next bill. 
It was five o'clock, and dinner just serving up, when my lord joined his company. At dinner, and during the reign of the bottle for a couple of hours after, the conversation turned upon all the polite topicks of the times, wherein there could be no long disputes, as every difference in opinion was immediately determined by a bet, the supreme decision of peace, war, religion and lawBut this dissipated pidling soon gave way to the serious business of the evening, to which they all adjourned, with an 
[Page 103]
attention and anxiety worthy of the consequence at stake. 
It is impossible to give you any idea of this scene, in which every moment produced such sudden transitions from dispair to exultation, from shouts of joy to the most blasphemous execrations of their very being, on the vicissitudes in the momentary fortunes of the actors, that the very recollection of it is a pain even to me, as it bears too strong a resemblance to the tortures of the damned. 
However, it made no such impression upon them: but they continued at it till about six in the morning, when they retired for the night. 
In the course of the evening, I often went the circuit of the whole company round, and at length was carried home by a new master. But before I say any thing of him, I must give you a few slight sketches of the characters of some others of the company, and particularly of my late lord, in whose whole appearance and behaviour there was something so extraordinary. 
There is scarce a stronger instance of the tyranny of avarice over the heart of man, than the passion for play, which now is so general and prevalent, as to seem in a manner to have drowned every other. The 
[Page 104]
tenderest, the strongest connections of friendship and nature, yield to the force of this resistless infatuation. The persons who esteem each other most in the world this moment, no sooner sitting down to this decision of fate, than they labour for each other's ruin, with all the assiduity and eagerness of the most inveterate hatred and revenge. 
Nor is this practice confined to those alone whom necessity may seem to stimulate to so desperate a resource. The richest are often found to be the most infatuated with this passion, who possessing already more than they can enjoy, yet hazard that, and give themselves up a prey to anxiety, and often to despair, to indulge a fruitless desire for more. 
Of this last class were most of the company, among whom my late lord had spent this evening: some few indeed there were whom this folly had reduced to the former, and necessitated to live by their experience in the art which had been their ruin. 

[Page 105]

CHAP. XV. 

Chrysal represents the company in perspective Anecdotes of some of the most remarkable persons of the party. A painter-general deceived by his own judgment and eminent taste for virtu. 
I see your curiosity rise at the mention of so strange a scene as this must be. It is natural, and therefore shall be indulged. But as all description must fall short of it, I shall represent it to you in perspective. Do you therefore resolve sense into imagination, a practice not uncommon with the philosophick mind, and to pure abstracted attention, shall my words become things, and appear as visible to its eyes, as if they were purged with euphrasie and rue. 
Observe now at the head of the table, that heavy looking figure, whose saturnine complexion gives a solemnity to his appearance, even beyond his declining years. This man wore out the prime of his life in indigence and hardships, till chance, by one successful stroke in his business, gave 
[Page 106]
him such a fortune, as was deemed sufficient merit to deserve nobility, and entitle him to one of the first employments in the state. 
Sudden elevation makes a weak head giddy; the plain, good-natured, chearful man, is lost in the solemn proud peer; who is harder of access than his sovreign, and seems to value himself on having all the hours he has spent in cringing to the great, repaid tenfold in attendance upon him. As to the business of his office, the whole system of human politicks is in general such a jumble of blundering and villany, that I can seldom bring myself to bestow a moment's notice on it, so can say no more of his, than that the little attention, and less capacity he has for it, may most probably give just occasion for all the murmurings that are against himBut this was not the motive of my pointing him to you. It was his infatuation to the love of play, which makes him hazard that wealth which he so long felt the want of, in hopes of acquiring more, though he has already more than he can enjoy. 
This has been an unsuccessful night with him. Observe how stupified he looks at his loss! extend the view but a few moments farther, and see how he sits down in the 
[Page 107]
common hall of the tavern, among servants and chairmen, insensible of the impropriety of such a place, and unable to order his servants to carry him home: nor is it improbable that the scene he has just quitted may remain so strongly on his imagination tomorrow, that he may write down the rule of the game he has been playing at, instead of the orders of his office, as he has done once before. 
Next to him, you see a short, ruddy, chearful looking man. That is one of the deplorable instances of the evil of this preposterous passion. With every advantage of rank, abilities and fortune, did that person set out in life. But alas! soon was the prospect of his future happiness and grandeur overcast! soon did gaming reduce him not only to a necessity of prostituting his abilities to the prejudice of his country, but also of descending to every iniquitous mystery of the art to support his practice of it; for so bewitched is he to it, that he cannot desist, though he now can scarce get any person to play with him, his want of money and his skill being so well known. 
This has been a successful evening with him, as you may see by his extraordinary flow of spirits: not that his natural vivacity ever fails him in the worst reverse of fortune. 
[Page 108]
He has won a considerable part of the great loosings of the person we have just been taking notice of; and though he has many demands upon him for every shilling of it, yet so far from thinking of paying one of them, he is this moment planning new scenes of pleasure to consume it all, preferring to let his creditors all be bankrupts, or even to compound with them as a bankrupt himself, rather than deny his appetites their full gratification. 
Opposite to him, at the other side of the table, observe an uncommonly large-boned bulky man: that is one of the instances of the insufficiency, and weakness of human laws, which striving to remedy one evil, often make way for a greaterThat man is now advanced to the foremost rank of the military list, without one military virtue to assist his rise, but merely and solely by seniority! A grievous abuse of that institution, which to prevent favour from advancing its minions over friendless merit, ordains, that no senior officer shall serve under his junior; but now, by the natural force of human perversion, this well designed regulation is made a pretext for giving command to such as have no other claim to it, than (what should indeed incapacitate them) old-age, and so keeping 
[Page 109]
back the advance, and damping the ardour of youth. 
As there is no man without some particular ambition, his has taken a turn, which perhaps you may think the most remote from his profession of a soldier. Pictures! painting, is the sole object of his admiration, the only knowledge he values himself upon. Tell him of a siege, or a battle, an attack or a retreat, conducted with the greatest skill, and he hears you unmoved, nor will interrupt your account with a single question: but name Rembrandt or Titian, and he immediately gives you a dissertation on their excellencies, and the difference of their schools! Tell him but of a sale of pictures, on the day fixed for a review, and, if he is forced to feign sickness to excuse his attendance in the field, he will be at it. 
Such absurd passions are always the objects of artifice and imposition. An ingenious painter of this country, not very long since, whose works would have been a credit to the best of foreign schools, but were despised at home, bethought himself of a way to turn this person's foible to some advantage. He made some designs, landscapes, and other drawings, in the manner of some of the greatest of the ancient Italian masters, whose names he 
[Page 110]
marked upon the backs of them, in the rude characters of their times, and giving them the cast of age, made them up, in an Italian chest, and by the assistance of a captain of a ship, had them entered at the custom house, as directly from Italy, and consigned to a stranger, as from a friend there, to be disposed of in London. 
The report instantly reached this lover of virtu, who was so ravished with the thought of gaining such a treasure, that he flew to the place, and being convinced by his judgment of the authenticity of them, bought them all together for a very large sum, but far short of their real value, had they been to be disposed of by a person acquainted with it. 
Though this success was very pleasing, and useful to the painter, he did not stop here. This person had some way taken a dislike to him, which he indulged, by running down his work. This therefore was an opportunity for revenge, not to be missed. He let him boast of his acquisition in all companies, and display his judgment in proving them to be the genuine productions of those great masters, by criticisms which none but a connoiseur could make: but then, as soon as the whole affair was so publick, that there was no denying it, what does the incensed artist but produce the 
[Page 111]
counterparts of them all, which he had kept for the occasion, so like as not possible to be known asunder, and unravelled the whole affair, taking care only to keep himself clear of the law, by saying, that he had sold those things as of no value, at a very small price, to a Jew. 
This was a severe stroke! It overturned the only reputation which he had even an ambition of, and robbed him of a large sum of money beside, to recover which loss, and divert the chagrine of the whole deceit, he has recourse to play, which he follows with the eagerness you see. 
I see your senses fail, under such an extraordinary exertion, I shall therefore close this scene with observing, that the whole company may be characterized under the few I have pointed to you. In this view of them, I chose to take the silent moment, when their business was near over, for in the height of it, the agitation of such complicated passions would have been too horrible for representation. 

[Page 112]

CHAP. XVI. 

Chrysal gives a farther account of his late lord. The methods by which he had been initiated in the mysteries of polite life. Some sketches of the character of his next master, who gives him to an extraordinary person. 
I promised to give you some account of my late lord. He was the son of one of the most distinguished persons of his age, who had acquired a fortune in the service of his conntry, sufficient to support, with proper dignity, the nobility with which his faithful zeal was rewarded by his grateful sovereign. 
The youth of his son opened with such promising hopes, that it was expected he would advance, in the steps of his father, to the highest rank of a subject. To facilitate these hopes, at his return from his travels, in which he had not only gone to see, but had also taken time to consider the principal countries of Europe, with those of Africa and Asia, whose interests might any way affect those of his own, or whose history, 
[Page 113]
illustrated thus by observation, might teach him to improve the advantages of his own country, and avoid the evils which had been the ruin of others, he was placed in the lower house of the senate, with every advantage of fortune, interest, and opinion, to support the exertion of his abilities. 
He had scarce made himself known here, in his proper light, when the death of his father raised him into the house of peers, where he soon established a weight that made him of real consequence to the nation, and alarmed the fears of the ministry, who, as they could not confute, resolved to corrupt him, if possible; for which end the deepest schemes were put in practice, to relax his morals, and embarrass his fortune, as the present situation of both, raised him above their attempts. 
It would require uncommon virtue to resist the temptations to vice, in an age whose refinements have taken off every grossness, and almost every horror of its appearance. His regard was won, by a most delicate application to that vanity, which is too often the shadow of merit, especially in youth; the very persons who designed to change his principles, seeming to give up theirs to the superior force of his reason. 

[Page 114]
Such artifice soon won the confidence of his unguarded heart, and inclined it to receive their opinions and advice, without farther examination; as the heat of youth, and a vivid imagination assisted their designs against his fortune, the success of which was in itself a sufficient reward. 
He had always expressed a dislike to play, nor ever gave into it, but in complaisance to company. To conquer this aversion was therefore their last labour, in which they found easier success than they could have even hoped for. The affluence of his fortune made him above apprehension of loss, and a disdain to be excelled, even in an art he disapproved, engaged him with a keenness, that soon made his advances in the art a pleasure to him. 
The work was now done; and a few years of his own industry, with the assistance of his friends, and the management of his faithful steward, made him willing to enter into the pay of a ministry, which he might, in less time, have over-turned. 
This was his situation at that time; but some secret struggles which I saw reason and virtue making in his heart, made me think he meditated a revolt from his infatuation, which the least liberty to his natural good sense could not fail to accomplish; 
[Page 115]
an event, which the rapacity of poundage must hasten to his own ruin. 
The person, in whose possession I left the scene you have just beheld, was one of those who had been so successful in initiating my late master into all the mysteries of pleasure. Indeed, he seemed designed by nature to extend its empire over all mankind, making it the sole object of abilities equal to the most exalted pursuits, to invent new, to improve the old methods of gratifying sense, and enforcing his precepts, by an example so keen, and a conversation so captivating, as not to be resisted. 
Appetites so extensive required a large support; to provide which, for fortune had so far frowned upon his birth, that he was but a younger brother, he was compelled to steal some moments from his darling pleasures, and sacrifice them to business The interest of his family, and his own abilities had raised him to the first employments in the state; but as the sole motive of his submitting to the restraint of any application, was to acquire a fund for the gratification of his pleasures, his haste to arrive at that end, precipitated him into the most destructive measures, and made him ready and eager to embrace every opportunity of sacrificing, or rather selling the interest 
[Page 116]
of his country for present private gain. 
The proper application of the gifts of heaven, makes them a blessing. This cast of his disposition, made those abilities, which under a right direction, would have been of the highest service to himself and his country, a real prejudice to both, making him the ready and dangerous instrument of the most enormous crimes, that could promise present gratification to his passions. 
In such a life, there must necessarily be many disagreeable occurrences, but they make no impression on him, for his whole soul is so devoted to pleasure, that upon the least miscarriage in business, he finds immediate relief in the return to that, which he can fly to, without any difficulty, the natural vivacity of his temper, that makes his conversation so bewitching to others, never yielding to a second moment's vexation, at any one event. 
As the viper bears in herself the antidote of her poison, this dissipation of temper prevents his abilities from doing all the mischief he otherwise might, by pulling off the mask, and shewing his designs, too soon for their accomplishment. The very persons, who would gladly avail themselves of 
[Page 117]
the venality, not daring to trust to the inconstancy of his disposition; so that he soon lost his greatest power of doing evil, otherwise than by opposing, and impeding the measures of those, whose successful honesty disappointed his designs, and shewed the danger of them in its proper light. 
You will not imagine, that my stay could be long in his possession. He that very day gave me to an author, for throwing dirt on the characters of those who had detected and defeated his schemes of leading his country into ruin. 
CHAP. XVII. 

The history and character of Chrysal's new master. His adventures at the coffee house. The fun of a modern genius retorted upon himself, by the grave rebuke of a testy veterane. 
My new master was a votary of Apollo, in the double capacity of physic and letters: for the former not affording scope enough for his genius, he usually dedicated his leisure hours to the gentler entertainment of the latter, through the extensive circle 
[Page 118]
of which he had occasionally ran; there not being a branch, in the wide wood of Science, which had not felt his pruning. The lowest rudiments of the most vulgar arts, being, in his opinion, no more beneath the philosophick pen, than the most abstruse heights of speculation. 
It must be owned, that in such a latitude of study, he often was obliged to prostitute his labours; but for this he had the solid consolation, that his gain generally rose, in proportion as his subject sunk, the caprice of the world paying best, that is, buying most eagerly, what it affected to decry most. Nor is this to be wondered at, a loose tale, or a receipt for cooking a new dish, being better adapted to general taste, than a moral essay, or metaphysical speculation. 
From his patron's levee, my master went directly home, and undressing into his cap and slippers, ascended to his study, and took a meditative turn or two, revolving in his mind the many grievances that called upon him for redress, from the success of that morning. 
At length, bursting into a rapture, he cried, 'I'll think no more! Be the wants of yesterday forgot! those of to-morrow will come too soon, without the anticipation of thought! I cannot pay all I owe! 
[Page 119]
I cannot provide all I want! Hence then vain care! I'll depend on fortune, and myself, for a greater supply, another day, and indulge my genius with the present.' -Big with this heroick resolution, he gave orders for dinner, and then sending for his best suit home, dressed himself in all his pride, and went to the coffee-house to look at the papers. 
The pleasure of my company had given such a flow to his spirits, naturally high, that he soon drew the attention of the coffee-room, the greater part of the company gathering in a circle round him, to hear his remarks on the publications of the day, which he threw out with the confidence of one, who thought his opinion the established standard of all writing; and at the same time, with a sprightliness that made his very impudence and absurdity entertaining. 
While he was thus running on, in the torrent of harangue, a veterane, whose only employment, for many years, was talking over the actions of his youth, and compaparing them to the mistakes and losses of the present times, no longer able to contain his rage, at having his audience drawn from him, in the midst of his daily tale, rose up with an execration that shook the room, and 
[Page 120]
calling for his cloak and cane, 'This is not to be borne (exclaimed He). Here, waiter, take for my coffee! I shall stay in such a place no longer: is this the land of freedom, forsooth! that a man must be disturbed in his discourse, and not have liberty to speak where he spends his money. Had I but the command here, I'd settle other orders; every prating puppy should not presume to interrupt his betters: things are like to go well with us, when matters of the highest consequence can be broken in upon by noise and nonsense. This is freedom with a vengeance!' 
The look and accent with which these words were pronounced, were too terrible for my master to encounter; both nature and experience having given him so lively an apprehension of danger, that his readiest presence of mind was not always able to conceal it. He was, therefore, cut short at once, and could scarce muster spirits to throw a wink at some of those about him, as the man of war looked another way. 
But the triumph was not so absolute over all the company, one of whom, resolving to have some fun, cries out, 'Pray doctor proceed; you are just, in the most interesting part of your story: the colonel 
[Page 121]
could not mean to interrupt you; he is too fond of telling his own story, to give another such pain: go on, you should not be frighted at a flash in the pan.' 
'Frighted indeed' (replied the doctor, gathering courage when he saw himself supported) 'at what, I wonder! at the sight of what old age can sink to! no, no! I am not so easily frighted! I leave that to your antiquated heroes, the exploits of whose youth have exhausted their courage: I mean no offence;-but to go on, as I was saying, the discovery of the sleep of plants accounts in the clearest manner'- 'Hold, doctor (cries the other) that was not as you were saying, you were telling us of the nobleman, who caught his coachman in bed with his lady, one morning, when he came home, sooner than usual from the tavern, pray how did she bring herself off.' 
'Oh, was that it (replied the doctor) faith I had forgot; the fury of Mars had like to have made a gap in the annals of Venus: ha! ha! ha! why she made nothing of it, but laughing in his face, most heroically, tit for tat my dear is but fair play (said she) while I say nothing at your staying out night after night with 
[Page 122]
Kitty, you cannot in conscience blame my comforting myself a little with John.' 
The colonel stood all this while convulsed with rage, too big for utterance, but the universal laugh that followed the doctor's last words, rousing him from his reverie, he advanced to him, 'Whom do you dare to laugh at, poultron? (says he, taking him by the nose) whose courage is exhausted? but you are beneath my notice or resentment, farther than this'-(then spitting full in his face, he turned to the gentleman who had set the doctor on, and who now began not to like the joke any farther) 'But for you, Sir, you perhaps may be a gentleman, and worth calling to a further account, will you please to walk up stairs with me, and let me know what you meant by a flash in the pan?' 
The ceremonies of attending him, on such an expedition, would not have been much more agreeable to this gentleman, than to my master, but he had more command of his fear, and was well used to bring himself off with a joke. 'Sir (says he) you need not give yourself the trouble of going up stairs, for what I can as well do here! By bidding the doctor not be frighted, I meant at the circumstances of 
[Page 123]
his own story, for just as you interrupted him, he had said, that the lord snapped a pistol at his lady, which had flashed in the pan! That was all, Sir! I could never mean it to offend you, or shew a doubt of your courage, which I have heard you relate so many surprizing instances of, so often, and always so invariably alike, that they must be true.' 
'Sir! Sir! have a care (replied the colonel) I do not desire to be troubled with such a gentleman, as I perceive your are! But let me tell you, Sir, that I have seen a man's face broke, before now, for wearing such a sneer! As to the stories I tell, I am satisfied they will be of no service to you, nor raise the least emulation in a man who can stay lounging about town, when his country has occasion for him. I was younger than you, when I went a voluntier with lord Cutts, under the duke of Marlborough, nor was I urged by want. I had a good estate, Sir, sufficient to supply me with what you call the pleasures of life, if I could have thought any thing a pleasure that was not attended with honour. Sir, I lost this hand at Blenheim, and this leg at Malplaquet! But why do I tell you so! you will preserve your hands to take snuff; and 
[Page 124]
your legs, to walk the park, the proper scene of your campaigns.' -With which words the doughty heroe marched away to his chariot. 
Though this lecture was rather too grave for the taste of the person to whom it was addressed, it gave great pleasure to the unconcerned part of the company, and to none more than my master, who had wiped his face, and began to come to himself, as soon as he saw the danger directed another way. 
Before the gentleman could speak, the doctor came up to him, and said, 'I am sorry, Sir, that you should have drawn this storm upon yourself, upon my account! But I bore the worst of it! You heard but the whistling of the winds, the shower fell on me! 'tis well though; that what such dotards do, is not esteemed an affront!' -'An affront, Sir (replied the other) I do not understand you! I hope you do not insinuate, that there was any affront offered to me, or that I was in the least concerned in what was said, only to you!' -'Not at all, Sir (returned the doctor) not at all, Sir! the colonel's discourse was all directed to me, to be sure! and I hope to profit by it, thus far, that I will never interrupt him again!' 
[Page 125]
-And with these words, he left his former friend the field, not caring to enter into any farther altercation with him, for fear he might take it into his head to vindicate his character on him, as he knew his man. 
Such slight rebuffs made not a moment's impression on the temper of my master: he was used to, and made nothing of them! A good dinner, and a bottle of wine, sent him in the evening, in a critical enthusiasm, to the theatre, where all action fell short of the sublimity of his conception, all expression, of the warmth of his feeling, as he fully explained, to every company in the coffee-house, while he set at public supper, after the play was done. 
CHAP. XVIII. 

Some further account of Chrysal's master. His conversation and engagements with two booksellers. Some of the secrets of the trade. Chrysal changes his service. 
Extensive as these scenes were, they shewed not my master in his proper light. His peculiar sphere was his study, where the inconsistency of his works shewed 
[Page 126]
the chaos in the brain, from whence they sprung. Chaos did I say? Chaos is order to the confusion there. For surely the discordant seeds of such ill-matched things were never jumbled together before. An auctioneer's library is a regular system, in comparison to his head. Such an heap has neither beginning nor end. No fixed point to commence a description from. I shall therefore wave such an attempt, and only strive to convey some idea of it, from its effectsAt five next morning he arose to his labours, the first of which was to consider, what he should begin the day with, such was the multitude he had in hand. But what reason could not determine, chance must, and he took them as they happened to lie, panegyrick, libel, physick, divinity, cookery, criticism, politicks, ballads, botany, &c. &c. &c. In all of which he indefatigably worked the task of the day, changing his subject with as little concern as he did his paper: and though such rambling prevented his ever getting deeper than the surface of any subject, yet it shewed the extent and volubility of his capacity, and that it wanted only regular application, to any science, to be eminent in it. 

[Page 127]
As soon as he had finished, and the devils had carried away his labours, he was just descending to go out, when a bookseller came to pay him a visit. After much ceremony on one side, and little civility on the other, Mr. Vellum thus accosted my master: 'Well, Sir, I see there is no dependance on the word of an author! I thought I was to have the answer to yesterday's pamphlet last night! Somebody else will do it, and then I shall be finely off.' 
'Upon my honour, Sir (replied my master) I assure you I should have done it, but some business'-'What business can you have, that should interfere a moment with your engagements with me?'-'Dear Mr. Vellum do but hear me! There is a noble lord going to be divorced for impotence; I just got an hint of the matter, the night before last, and so waited upon his lordship's gentleman yesterday morning, with whom I have a particular intimacy, having served him in my profession more than once; and from him I have learned the whole story, and now leave me to set it out! I'll engage to make a noble eighteen-pennyworth of it at least by to-morrow morning.' 'Why, there may be something in that; but in the mean time you should not let other matters cool!' 

[Page 128]
-'Never fear; pray how did yesterday's pamphlet do?' -'Why tolerably well; but the scandal was so gross, that I was almost afraid'-'Aye! aye! never fear me for an home cut! never fear me!' -'But I hear nothing of the exercitations!' -'No; your devil carried away the sheet above an hour ago!' -'Then there's that book you promised to re-write; some one else will do it, and prevent you.' -'Never fear, I have just laid down a scale for the stile; beside, I have altered the title already, and that you know is the principal thing.' -'That is right! Now you speak of titles, I want half a dozen directly! this very day if possible!' - ''Tis rather too late now; but where are the books?' -'In the lumber-garret, where they have lain these seven years.' -'That's well; they are forgot by this.' -'Forgot! why they were never known! the author was a man of fortune, who printed them at his own expence, but I prevented the sale, and so had them for the publishing! Ha! ha! ha! beside a good consideration for the buying up, at a double price, what I had (not) sold of them; so that it was not a bad job; and now he is dead, they may safely come out, under new titles! -It will be too great a delay to wait to see them, but here are the old titles, which I suppose may do.' -'Why aye; they may do! 
[Page 129]
but I cannot possibly write them this evening; you know I must answer that pamphlet I wrote last week, before it is forgot I have an answer ready, that will make a noise; I expect it will raise a curiosity, that will sell another edition of the pamphlet. I left opens for such retorts upon the characters I praised in that, and have such pieces of secret history to hit them off with, that I'll engage for the success-.' 'Aye, secret history, and stories of family misfortunes, and such like, may do something! But I had like to have forgot the main business of my coming. There is an account of the death of an eminent divine, this morning: could we not vamp up a volume or two of sermons for him, think you? He was suspected of heresy and atheism, and you know, that would make any thing in his name go off'. 'Egad, a good thought! and particularly lucky at this time: for as I have been engaged in divinity lately, I know the weak sides of the question, and a little infidelity will be a refreshment to me. It shall be done! the sermons shall be ready without delay! Have not you got some by you that did not go off: let me have one of each, and I'll interline it to save time; but will you publish them yourself? I thought you had given up sermons!' 
[Page 130]
'Myself! no! no! I'll send them in to Mr. Vampe: I'll reserve the confutation of them to myself!' -'Egad, another good thought; the confutation will do better! and I'll take care to make it a smart one, and play the devil with the author; ha, ha, haBut, Mr. Vellum, your coming here this morning prevented my waiting on you: it is a great while since you promised to settle with me. You should consider, Sir'-'What pray, good Sir, should I consider? that I have supported you!' -'Supported me, Mr. Vellum! Sir, I have a profession'-'I know you have, Mr. Doctor; a profession indeed, in which his majesty's subjects may bless God that nine in ten of you would starve, if they had not some other way of getting bread, beside that'-'Mr. Vellum, you know this way of talking signifies nothing. It is a long time since we have settled any account, and there are a great many articles! Let me see: aye, here they are! and a long list it is! Nineteen pamphlets, with answers to fourteen of them, nine rapes, six murders, five fast and four funeral sermons, thirty-six essays, twenty-two titles, four quarto volumes re-writ, seventeen wills, twenty-four'-'Go on, Sir, go on! 
[Page 131]
but when you have done look at this, and then talk to me of an account; here is your bond for 15l. which is due these two years; and it is very likely, to be sure, that you should leave it out-standing so long, if you had any account to set off against it! but I am glad I know you; and since you talk of accounts, observe that I demand my money, due on this bond, which I will have, and when you have paid that, it will be time enough for me to settle accounts with you, so Sir your servant.' - 'Mr. Vellum, good Mr. Vellum, do not be so hasty! I did not mean to give you offence' '-Accounts indeed! have I not supplied you with paper above the weekly allowance we agreed for, and yet you will talk to me!' - 'Mr. Vellum, I may be in the wrong; let matters stand as they are: but you have not told me what size you would have this affair of the divorce, that I mentioned to you just just now'-'There it is now; that is your way always; you know my easy temper, and that you can bring me down when you and the circumstances are very strong and plain, I believe you may draw it out to two shillings; and to encourage you, and show you that I mean generously by you, when you have finished that, and the Answer, and the Sermons, and the Confutations, and the Titles, and the Exercitations, I will give you up your 
[Page 132]
bond, and then we will begin an account on fair even terms. But I am in haste; I have three or four other gentlemen to call upon; I shall depend upon your promise, and so good morning.' -'Good morning to you, good Mr. Vellum-Damn'd, imposing, grinding scoundrel, but I'll be quit with you, for all your tricks (said the doctor, as soon as Mr. Vellum was out of the room) and teach such stupid rascals to attempt outwitting men of genius.' 
When I considered the nature and importance of my master's demand, I could not but wonder at the ease with which he took a denial, and the joy he expressed at Mr. Vellum's departure; but the mystery was soon cleared up, by the arrival of Mr. Pamphlet, another of the trade, almost the very moment Vellum went down stairs, and whom I saw by his reception, my master expected. 
If I was before shocked at the cruelty with which I thought Vellum treated my master, I was now no less so, at the part he acted with Pamphlet, with whom he bargained over again for the very same ware which he before promised to Vellum, and flattered him with an assurance of having his business done, that is, the answers and 
[Page 133]
re-writing, before Vellum possibly could, for they were mortal enemies. 
The discourse between these was much the same as the former, only that it was concluded in a different manner; Pamphlet giving my master a couple of pieces to keep him in mind of his engagement. 
I was utterly at a loss to think how he meant to act between these two; when he put an end to my doubts by this soliloquy. 'So, now I have dispatched you two, the day is my own; keep my engagements! I will, with both alike. Let me see, there is nothing in it, but a little trouble of writing: I can divide the hits between both answers according to the opens I have left on purpose, and so send them to both at the same time; only to divide the alterations in my scale of stile, and make a second title, and so 'tis done. This method that I have found, of using a feigned name, makes it all easy. Well, let those who were born to fortunes, spend them in sloth and ignorance, I have an estate in myself, that can never be exhausted. I am obliged to nature only for my abilities, and carry the fountain of honour and fortune in the fluency of my genius.' 

[Page 134]
He then descended from his aerial citadel, and going out to visit his patients, changed me at the coffee-house, where I was immediately borrowed at the bar by an officer, who was going to dine with his general, and wanted money to give his servants. 

End of the First Book.


[Page 135]

BOOK II. 
CHAP. I. 

Chrysal enters into the service of the gentleman of a general. Gratitude in high and low life. The modern way of rising in the world, and the happiness of dependance. Influence of Chrysal's master, with his curious manner of supporting it. 
You may judge that my stay with this owner was but short: he gave me directly to the general's gentleman, with a letter to be presented to his excellency next morning, as he could not find courage to speak to him in person. 
The case of this person, though not uncommon among men, I own affected me. He was the son of an officer of distinguished merit, the services of whose life had, in the 80th year of it, been rewarded with the command of a regiment, and the hopes of his son crowned with a pair of colours; which, on the death of his father, in six months after his elevation, he found to be 
[Page 136]
his whole inheritance; the fees of office, and the equipage for his new rank having exhausted all the savings of the old man's subaltern frugalityThe most exemplary duty, in five warm campaigns, had advanced the son to the rank, of a lieutenant, when the exaltation of the person to whom he now applied, raised his hopes to a company, which was vacant in the regiment, and his right by seniority: for such was his ignorance of mankind, that he built sanguine expectations on the very reasons that should have deprived him of any, the obligations of the person, to whom he applied, to his father, who had taken him up, the poor friendless orphan of a young ensign, educated him at his own expence, procured him his first commission, and afterwards lent him the money with which he had purchased his company: a debt which the son was weak enough to expect a friendship from, though it, and much more, had long since been cleared at play. 
But though the character of the son, and the general's known intimacy with the father, in a manner obliged him to promise him his friendship, yet nothing was farther from his thoughts than ever to do him any real service; as he imagined that would be acknowledging the obligations which his 
[Page 137]
very attendance seemed to upbraid him with: a dinner now and then being the only favour he ever had or ever meant to give him. You may perhaps have experienced the misery of a dependant's dining at the table of his patron, where the tortures of Tantalus are aggravated by anxiety of giving offence. I shall therefore hasten over this, and the other scenes of that evening, which were but the common occurrences of military greatness, and ended in a deep debauch, as soon as all but the chosen few had retired, to come to the conclusion of my late master's story, in which my present bore a considerable part. 
As soon as the general had slept off the fumes of his wine, and awoke next morning, my master's hour of influence arrived, which he never failed to improve. After a prelude of coughing and spitting, the scene opened thus, 'Who's there? William!' - 'Sir,'-'William, was not I very drunk last night? my head achs most confoundedly.' - 'Your excellency was a little cut, but you broke up much the strongest of the company.' -'Aye, I wonder at that, I spend myself with talking, when I begin to go, and that helps a man on damnably: that story of the battle, where I was taken prisoner, is a bottle in my way always.' -'That foreign 
[Page 138]
gentleman, who never speaks a word, has a great advantage then'-'Aye, so he has; but he is a damned honest fellow, and a very good companion; he always fills a bumper and never speaks a wordBut my head.'- 'Perhaps your excellency had better take something'-'No, I have taken too much already; though that's right; give me a glass of the old Geneva; I am to go to council to day, and must settle my head-Aye, that will do, I am much better now; there is nothing like a hair of the old dog'. 
This conversation continued till he was seated to breakfast, when my master turned to a new topic. 'I was very sorry (said he) that your excellency happened to sit in last night, as Mrs. Motherly was to call'-'Why that's true, William; I did not think of one engagement when I made the other; and when she called me out, I was not in cue; I was too far gone. We old fellows are not sparrows; the spirit is often willing, when the flesh is weak; ha, ha, ha.' -'Your excellency is pleased to be merry, but to my thinking, the youngest fellow at the age has not more vigour'-'Aye, William, do you think so indeed? But why do you think so William?' -'Because your excellency always chuses such green things: now I should think a ripe woman would 
[Page 139]
be better; I am sure she would give less trouble.' -'Ha, ha, ha, why that's your taste; but youth is mine; and while I have powers (and I do not think mine quite gone yet) I will please my taste. But what had Mrs. Motherly last night?' -'A very fine girl as your excellency could wish to see'- 'How old?' -'About sixteen.' -'Psha, mellow pears; I loath such trash.' -'But Mrs. Motherly said she could swear she was untouched. She came from the country but yesterday, a relation of her own: the poor thing knew nothing of the matter, and thought she came to be hired for a laundry-maid.' -'Why that is something; but I wish she were younger'-'If your excellency pleases but to wait a little, I have one in my eye that will suit your taste exactly; a sweeter child is not in all England' -'Aye, good William (spitting once or twice, and wriggling in his chair) Aye, that is something; but how old?' -'Just ten, and finely grown'-'Right, the right age. That's true! I'll speak this very day for that place for your brother. Tell him to come to-morrow; I will not be refused.' - 'We are both obliged to your excellency for all your favours'-'But when shall I see this girl? Give Motherly some excuse with her ripe fruit. Sixteen! sixty! psha!'- 
[Page 140]
'Sir I shall go about it this very evening. A letter from captain Standard; will your excellency please to read it'? -'Damn him and his letter: throw it into the fire! What would the unreasonable scoundrel have? Did I not give him his dinner yesterday? Has he not been introduced to good company at my table? If he had any industry or spirit, with these advantages, he would have learned to play, and made his fortune as others do. Since he grows troublesome on encouragement, I'll starve him into better manners. Bid the porter strike him off the dinner list.' -'I beg your excellency's pardon, for mentioning him; but the manner I have heard you talk to him made me imagine you really did design to provide for him; and he says there is a vacancy in the regiment just now'-'Damn his impudence! a vacancy indeed! I shall never think there is a good one till he makes it at Tyburn.' -'I beg your excellency's pardon: I shall never mention him more. Would you have me go about the child this evening; it is a little angel to be sure'-'This moment if you think you can succeed.' -'I shall try at any rate: but there is one obstacle'-'What is that? you know I never grudge money on these occasions. How much will do?' -'That is not the difficulty here; money will not 
[Page 141]
do, and I hardly know what will'- 'Money not do? Why what the devil can it be, that money will not do?' -'I scarce know how to mention it to your excellency, but the little cherub is neice to captain Standard, his sister's daughter, and while he is in the way, there will be no possibility of getting at her'-'Is that all? He shall join the regiment to-morrow.' -'But then he will leave such an impression of your unkindness upon his sister, if there is nothing done for him, after waiting so long, that it will be impossible for any person belonging to you to gain access.' -'What would you have me do? I never will bear to have the fellow get a company in my regiment: that would be acknowledging the obligations he has the impudence to say I received from his father; I never will bear it.' -'I beg your excellency's pardon; I did not presume to point out any such thing, and indeed the possession of such a baby (though my eyes never beheld her fellow) is not worth your giving yourself so much trouble about; she is quite too young, though so well grown'-'You say she is but just ten! and such a beauty!' -'I wish your excellency could but see her, for I am unable to describe her'-'But cannot some way be found out, beside fixing this fellow under my 
[Page 142]
nose?' -'That was just what I was going to take the liberty of hinting to your excellency. There are several gentlemen of fortune, in the troops just ordered to America, who have no liking to the voyage. Now I think, with submission, that you would oblige some of them, with an exchange into your regiment, and let captain Standard go in his place. And this will oblige him too; for I have often heard him wish to go there, in hopes of rising, when they come into action.' -'A good thought! and so I will. Let the fellow go to America and get scalped; his hot head wants to be cooled: such poor wretches as he are just fit to be transported there. Tell him to prepare directly! I long to be rid of him. But when shall I see the dear little creature?' -'In twenty-four hours after he is gone, I'll undertake to have her eating sugar-plumbs, and sobbing in your bosom. It cannot possibly be sooner, for you know the captain's spirit, and that he would cut the throat of a prince, who should dishonour his family, as he calls it.' -'Aye, damn his spirit, that is true; that is what has kept me civil to the fellow so long: I know he has all the romantic madness about honour, and such 
[Page 143]
stuff, that made his fool of a father live and die a beggar'. 
By this time his excellency was dressed, to go to council, for which another dram settled his head. 
I see your surprise, at the brutal behaviour of the master, and the infamous designs of the man. The former is beyond aggravation; but the latter were only an honest artifice in favour of his friend, who had no such neice in the world. 
CHAP. II. 

The history of Mr. William. Some odd circumstances in his conduct accounted for. By a progression equally polite and frugal; Chrysal comes from his possession into that of a celebrated female. 
William was a son of the regiment, born of one of the general wives that followed it. He was about the same age with Standard, who had taken such a liking to him, when they were boys, that he shared his allowance with him, gave him his old cloaths, and taught him what he learned at school. A natural acuteness of genius improved 
[Page 144]
these advantages so well, that William could read and write enough for a gentleman; dance, fence, and scrape on the violin, before his friend's power of serving him was put an end to, by the death of his father and his spirit and appetites were too great, to accept of his offer, of the best support an ensign could spare him, to maintain him as a cadet, till his merit should get him a commission. But though he would not accept, he did not forget the offer, nor make his obligations a cause of hatred, now that it was in his power to make some return; a way of thinking, that proved the meanness of his birth; for quitting the barren paths of military honour, he had turned his genius to the more thriving profession of a footman; through the various ascents of which, he had risen to his present rank, of his excellency's gentleman; in which he had the unfashionable gratitude to return the favours of his former benefactor in the above manner, which his experience and knowledge of his master's temper convinced him to be the only one he could hope to succeed in. As to his promise about the child, he was in no pain about that, there being no person who could contradict whatever excuse he should please to give. 

[Page 145]
There is one circumstance, which I see puzzles you, in the character of this man, and that is his taking me from his friend, when he must be sensible how badly he could spare such a sum. But you must consider the power of nature when strengthened by habit. 
From his mother, William had inherited venality, which the bribery of vails, in his present profession, had confirmed beyond all possibility of correction; so that it was no more in his power to refuse a guinea when offered to him, than to change his stature or complexion. And attention to this observation would take off the wonder, and ease the world from the trouble of the exclamations that are daily made against the rapacity of persons in office, for as such are generally taken from the class of William, it cannot be expected but they must act from the same natural principles with him. 
I see the depravity of human nature, when stripped of disguise and ornament, affects your unexperienced heart too strongly. But consider, that we see things as they really are, and to represent them otherwise to you, would invert the design of my mission, and confirm, rather than remove 
[Page 146]
the prejudices that lead astray the mind of man. 
However, this consolation I can give you, that the vices I have already drawn, and may hereafter draw to your view, are not particular to this age or country: they are the weeds which in every age and clime, have always, and always will, over-run the human heart. 
Nor is it just to call them vices (though in compliance with the language of men I do call them so) which perhaps are but * 7 necessary parts of this universal system; and though in a particular instance, and viewed by themselves, they may appear deformed, yet when thrown into the general representation of things, they may have their beauty and use, if only to diversify the scene: and with respect to men in particular, be as 8 advantagious to the community as they are prejudicial to individuals. 
But to return to my master William. Beside the advantages of education, he had such from nature, that he was not only the 
[Page 147]
most accomplished gentleman, but also the handsomest fellow of his time; an happiness of which he availed himself so well in the polite world, that he was the favourite of all the compliant fair, who shared with him the pleasures they only suffered from his superiors for hire. 
Of this I saw sufficient proof that very evening, when he went to an assignation with the most celebrated courtesan of the age; who sacrificing avarice to pleasure, gave orders to be denied to every body, and shut herself up with him, to give a loose to joy for the evening. 
This was a scene too sensual for a spirit to describe: I shall therefore only say, that their fatigue and waste of spirits were recruited with the highest delicacies and richest wines, and the pauses of joy enlivened with the recital of the adventures of their professions, heightened with the most poignant ridicule of those whose folly was their fortune. 
Before satiety could pall their pleasures, time summoned them to business. The fair, to prepare for the reception of her friend; and my master to wait on his; when, to conclude the evening with proper gallantry, he presented me to the maid at the door. 

[Page 148]
I was a good deal surprised, at being received with less emotion by this portress of Venus then I had ever found before; the sight of me having always raised joy. But this was soon explained, when, on returning to her mistress, she threw me on the table, and received a shilling in exchange. An instance of that methodical conomy which by many small savings makes up for one large expence, and extracts profit even from pleasure. 
The joy of the mistress seemed to make amends to my vanity for the indifference of her maid, and promise me the full possession of her heart, but I soon found myself mistaken, and that her love for me was only while I was the property of another; for no sooner did I become her own, than she threw me carelessly into her purse, and turned her thoughts immediately to the acquisition of more. But though I lost the greatest part of my power over her, by coming into her possession, I still found ample room in her heart for my abode. 
The apartments were scarce got in order, and my mistress new dressed, when her friend appeared, to whom she flew with all the appearance of rapture. But however he might be deceived, the difference was plain to me, between the joyless caresses she 
[Page 149]
sold to him, and the extasy she shared with my late master, the glow of whose kisses yet reeked upon her lips. Nor was this strange: the ardor of her lover met her half way, and communicated as much fire as it received; but with her keeper the case was quite otherwise: all the advances were to come from her; all her caresses were a duty; nor were the tenderest she could bestow, able to warm him to the least return. 
You wonder, that a person in such circumstances should be at the expence and trouble of keeping a mistress, whose extravagance was to be equalled only by her insolence. But this is only a small instance of the tyranny of fashion: and how will your astonishment be encreased, when I tell you, that this very man, in the prime of life, was remarkable for the coolness of his constitution, and now in its decline was married to a beautiful young lady, whose resentment at his conjugal neglect rose so high, as to charge it to inability, and perhaps to return it with infidelity. 
Whether this was really the case, and that he kept my mistress to hide it, as a failing tradesman sets up a coach, or whether the passion remained, but so feebly supported, as to require the lascivious blandishments 
[Page 150]
of a prostitute, I cannot determine, as I was never in his possession, to take a view of his heart. 
CHAP. III. 

The manner in which Chrysal's new mistress received and took care of her friend. How she employed herself while he was asleep. Her management of him next morning. 
It was about two in the morning when my mistress received him drunk and stupified with play, at which he had lost deeply that night. On his coming into her room, he threw himself into a chair, without saying a word, or shewing the least sensibility of her caresses; where after some time, he fell fast asleep, which my mistress no sooner perceived, than calling her maid to undress and roll him into bed, 'Here Jane (said she) take my place, by this heap of mortality. I'll step to --- street; perhaps the company may not be all gone. Never fear, I'll insure you from a rape! He wants nothing in a bed-fellow but to keep him warm, and you may do that, while I pass my night better 
[Page 151]
than in nursing his infirmities; I'll be home before he stirs'. 
Jane obeyed her mistress, who slipped into a chair, and went away directly to an house, where she used to piddle away her leisure hours with any chance customers, rather than be idle. 
About five ended this scene, in the rites of which my mistress bore a distinguished part. I shall not attempt to describe these mysteries: they were too gross for my relation, as well as your conception, in your present mortified habit. She then returned home, and laying her pure body in her maid's place, beside her friend, who had not stirred yet, her fatigues soon threw her into a sleep, as sound as his. 
It was noon before these fond lovers awoke: the first was my mistress, who enraged that any thing which bore the name of man, should shew so little sensibility of her charms, resolved to teize him with endearments, which, as he was seldom in a humour to return in kind, he never failed to pay for in a more substantial manner. 
When she had awoke him with her toying, the syren thus began her song: 'How can my dearest sleep so long, when his little girl lies languishing by his side! O turn, and let me lay my head on that 
[Page 152]
dear bosom.' -'Ha! what is it a clock?' (replied the lover, yawning, and rubbing his eyes)-'Alas I know not! I have told so many tedious hours, that I've forgot them: but what is time to us, who only live to love?' -'Past 12! I must be gone! some business'-'Business; leave that for duller souls, who have no taste for pleasure: can you leave love and me for business?' -'I am sorry I happened to oversleep myself, my dear; I believe I was bewitched, to drink so much; but we'll make it up another time.' -'So you say always; but that other time will never come: but I will not be served so; I am flesh and blood, whatever other people may be; and you yourself know, it is not for want of friends, I keep myself up, thus like a nun, for you; and all, I do not know for what!' -'Is the girl mad? Do not I give you every thing you want, every thing you desire?' -'No, nor any thing I desire! I desire now- So, you will get up and leave me: I will not be used thus: you have got some other woman: but I here give you fair warning, that I will be even with you! Sir George was here yesterday; and so was the young lord-but I would not see either of them: and I am well requited now: but I know where to send to them: 
[Page 153]
I will not be made a fool of every way, for nothing; and so you may sleep where you please, I care not.' -'Come my dear, let us not fall out for nothing; you have not shewn me the diamond ear-rings you got last week.' -'No, my dear, they are not come home.' -'I thought you told me they were finished when I gave you the money to pay for them.' -'They were so; but when he brought them home, I did not like them. The jeweller told me, they were not so fine as those he made for your lady, some time ago; so I sent them back, and ordered him to make me a pair, that should be as good as her's at least.' -'Not good enough, child! were they not to cost 150 l.' - 'And what is 150l.-Sir Richard gave his girl a pair that cost 500; but if you think these are too dear, you are not obliged to pay for them: there is another, who will be glad to do it.' -'And pray what are these fine ones to cost?' -'Why-only-but kiss me first-only 200l. But then I have bespoke a necklace with them'-'Zounds, a diamond necklace!' -'And what mighty matter is a diamond necklace? Pray has not your wife one? But I see how it is; you think any thing good enough for me; and nothing good enough for her: but 
[Page 154]
every one does not think so: I am not at a loss.' -'Well, you sawcy little minx; and what do they all come to?' -'Another kiss, and I'll tell you:-why-don't frown; or I won't tell you at all;-only 500l.'- '500devils; that's more than my wife's cost by 100.' -'And do not you love me 100 times better than your wife? I have given up thousands for you. But, as I said before, you need not pay for them, if you do not chuse it: there are others who will: I see I am slighted; and I deserve it, for slighting so many good offers: but I will not always be a fool!' - 'Well, my dear, for this one time I will humour you: give me the pen and ink: but you must not expect that I shall ever gratify your extravagance so far again:'-'I thank you, my lord; I shall not trouble you again this great while. But what is this? 350l.! you have made a mistake, my lord; I told you 500l.' -'Well child, did I not give you 150to pay for the other pair?' - 'Yes, my lord; but that was not to pay for this pair though, you know these are dearer.' -'But that and this will.' -'I am afraid not.' -'How so, child; do not 150and 350make 500?' -'Indeed I am a poor accountant; but I know it will not do.' - 
[Page 155]
'No! why so; I do not understand you:'-'I'll kiss you first, and then I'll tell you.' - 'Psha; cease fooling; I am in haste; I must go to court; and have scarce time to dress: where is the 150 l.?' -'There (kissing him)'-'Where?' -'Gone, as that kiss is; all gone, and only the relish left behind, to give an appetite for more.' -'Infernal jade!' (aside)-'What do you say, my lord?' -'That I cannot, will not bear such extravagance.' -'I am glad I know your mind, my lord: then if you do not, somebody else will, who will not make such a stir about trifles.' -'Well, give me that bill.' -'No, thank you, my dear.' - Why so?' -'For fear you should be a bold boy, and not return it. If you please to give me the other 150l. I'll get the necklace and earings; if not, this will serve for some other use.' -'Damnation! and then I must give it to her all over again' (aside)'Well, my lord; you said you were in haste, and so am I.' -'Give me the pen and Ink: there it is you little termagant: but once more let me caution you against such extravagance for the future.' - 'And once more, let me tell you, my lord, not to give yourself such airs: extravagance! they that will have delicacies, must pay for them: and if you think the 
[Page 156]
price too dear, there are more customers in the market; and so, my lord, like it, or like it not, I will be supported; and more than that, what I want in pleasure, shall be made up in profit: let wives save, who may be the better for the savings, our business is to make hay while the sun shines.' -'Come, my dear; let us have no disputes: you have the money now; next time we will clear off the other score: give me a kiss, I'll call in the evening, and take a dish of tea with you: farewell'-'Good morrow-(after he is gone) for an old impotent, poor-spirited letcher, that must he treated like a dog, to make you know your duty. What fool would ever be at the trouble of behaving well to any fellow, when she can, so much better, mould him to her pleasure by ill usage?' 

[Page 157]

CHAP. IV. 

The history and character of Chrysal's mistress. She gives him to a noted matron. Some account of his new mistress, and her manner of managing her family. 
This principle she acted up to, for two days that I was in her possession, without any other variation in her conduct, than just what was necessary to work on the various tempers of her lovers, making no real difference between them, except it was, that she always used those worst, who used her best. 
I have often told you, that sensuality is disagreeable to a spiritual being. I therefore longed to quit this mistress, the succession of whose amours was so constant and quick, that I was astonished how nature could afford a fund of love for them all, in so young a creature, for she was not 20 years oldI see you have a curiosity to know the history of this young votary of Venus, in which you think there must be something extraordinary: but you are deceived; 
[Page 158]
it contains nothing but common occurrences. 
She was the daughter of tradespeople, in moderate circumstances, whose foolish fondness, because she was a pretty, smart child, gave her an education above her rank, in hopes of her making her fortune by marriage. 
This raised the vanity, natural to the female heart, so high, that she despised her own station, and not being so fortunate as immediately to climb to the one she desired, by the way proposed, she fell an easy victim to the first seducer who promised it, in any other. 
Thus the accomplishments, by which the injudicious tenderness of her parents meant to raise her into a rank higher than their own, became the cause of her falling into that of the lowest of all human beings: a fall, though deplorable in itself, yet unaffecting to her, as the time, in which her mind should have been formed to virtue, was given up to the nourishing that vanity which proved her ruin; so that she is absolutely insensible of the wretchedness of her condition, and never has the pursuit of her most infamous profession disturbed by a moment's remorse. 

[Page 159]
I told you of her spending the hours that were unemploy'd at home, at an house in ---street, where she was always sure of business. Though this venerable mansion was dedicated to the mysterious rites of unrestrained love, yet as the priests of all temples expect to live by the offerings made at them, her conscience would not permit the priestess of this to break through an ordinance, so long established, and she exacted fees from the votaries of her's: not indeed a tythe, indiscriminately from all, whether they received benefit from their devotion, or not; but always in proportion to the fruits they reaped. 
At this shrine was I offered, the third night of my being in the possession of this young devotee, when the plenteousness of her gain, from a multitude of lovers, seemed, to her piety, to merit so rich a return. 
I now entered into a much more extensive scene than my last, the prostitution of which made but a small part of the business of the profession. But what I have related in the history of my late mistress, shall suffice for that branch, nor shall I give more than some outlines of the horrors of the rest. 

[Page 160]
My new mistress had originally been of the sisterhood of my last, who having fallen a prey to lust, almost in her infancy, and having no beauty, nor any thing but extreme youth, to recommend her, as soon as that was worn out, neglect obliged her to apply to other business for bread, and her natural turn determining her to this, as well as the outrageous virtue of the undiscovered part of her own sex, excluding her from every other, she changed her occupation, from yielding, to providing pleasure, in which her success was so great, that she soon became the most eminent of her profession. 
It was near five in the morning, when I changed my service; and business being ended, my late mistress having reigned sole mistress of the night, and seen out all the company, there remained nothing to do, after she went home, but to see the inmates to their truckle-beds in the cock lofts, where stripping off every part, not only of the finery, but even of the comforts of dress, they were crowded three or four together, to keep each other warm, under a ragged coverlet, upon a bare mattress, where their shudderings and groans made a just contrast to the spirited wickedness of their conversation some hours before. 

[Page 161]
This was always the fate of those who were not so successful in the evening as to earn the price of a better bed, above the fees of the house, and hire of cloaths. 
These happy few were treated with fondness, while they squandered their poor peculium in a drop of cordial to settle their heads, and were lodged in apartments suited to their purses; though the night before perhaps they had experienced the same fate with their sisters above stairs, and knew they must expect it again the next, if unsuccessful in their business. 
When matters were thus settled, this happy family disposed themselves to take the best repose which disease in mind and body would permit. 
An active spirit disdains rest. Though debauchery had anticipated old age, in the constitution of my mistress, yet her application to business, made her refuse nature even necessary indulgence. She was ready to go out before ten that morning, when the modest decency of her dress and appearance were such as drew the general good opinion, and would almost deceive the devil himself, on whose most favourite service she was going. 

[Page 162]

CHAP. V. 

Chrysal's mistress pays a visit to the last place she could have been suspected for going to. She meets a young lady, with whom, by an artifice, she goes home. Her schemes to ensnare the lady. 
If a judgment were to be formed for the whole day, from the manner of beginning it, my mistress should have spent her's most happily; her first visit being to church, where the piety of her behaviour was an edification to the devout matrons, who having nothing to do at home, meet there regularly, to compare their aches and dreams of the night before, and enjoy the innocent amusement of a little gossiping over the affairs of their neighbours. 
But her devotion wasted not itself so fruitlessly: her industry had formed expectations of drawing considerable advantage from it, and so anticipating futurity, and making sure of the reward here, which others waited for in another worldThe immediate motive of her devotion, this morning, was to see a young lady with 
[Page 163]
whom she had commenced an acquaintance at this church, and who constantly attended divine service there. You are surprized how she could think of going to such a place, on such an errand; but the wolfe roams about for prey every where, and is often most successful, where his attempts are least suspected: though I must rob her industry of the merit of design in the first introduction to this affair. 
Going through St. Martin's Lane one morning, about a month before, she was so struck with the appearance of a lovely young creature, in widdow's-weeds, who was going into the church, that she followed her; where the fervency, with which she poured out her soul in devotion, gave such a lustre to her beauty, and made it shine so lovely through her grief, that my mistress immediately marked her for her list, not doubting but she should be able to turn her distress to such advantage, as should bring her into her measures, and make her beauty yield her a rich return for her pains, from some of her customers. If you consider the nature of woman-kind, you will not wonder at this instance of the profligacy of my mistress. They are ever in extremes; either the best or worst of human creatures From church she dogged her to her lodging, 
[Page 164]
in a little court, where she lived with a poor, but honest family, in such privacy, that no one in the neighbourhood could give any account of her. 
Real virtue shines with a lustre that dazzles the most confirmed vice, and keeps it at an awful distance. My mistress, hardened as she was in all the ways of sin and impudence, dared not to go directly to her without some business or introduction: but as she had not either, her ready genius prompted her to win her good opinion, under an appearance of religion, and then an acquaintance would come easily. 
She was not deceived in her expectations: a few morning's constant attendance at church, and the exemplary warmth of her devotions, struck the eye, and opened the heart of unexperienced innocence to the acquaintance she wished for, which she did not fail to improve, by the same arts, to some degree of intimacy. 
In this situation they were, when she went, but without any appearance of design, to meet her this morning at church, as usual. As they came out together, my mistress, turning with her fair friend, said she had some business into Long-Acre, and asked her, if she went that way, to which the young lady innocently answered, that she 
[Page 165]
did, and should be glad to walk with her. 
As they walked together, my mistress turned her conversation on the wicked ways of the town, and particularly the many base designs that were laid to insnare unwary innocence, adding, that all the pleasure which sensuality could give the most luxurious heart, must fall infinitely short of what she felt at that very moment, in the design she was then going upon, of relieving the distresses of a worthy family. 
She had timed her discourse so as to say these words, just as she came to the entrance of the court, in which she knew the widow lived, when, feigning to slip, she fell all along, crying out, as in the utmost agony, that she had wrenched her ankle. 
The lady, raising her with the greatest tenderness, expressed her concern for the unhappy accident, and desired she would submit to be helped into her lodgings, which fortunately were at the next door, where, though she could be but poorly accommodated, she might be more at her ease, than in a more sumptuous place, and should have all the care in her power. This was just what my mistress had schemed for, who courteously accepting of the offer, 
[Page 166]
made a shift to limp in, without any other assistance than her's. 
It raised my indignation to see the tenderness with which the beautiful young creature pulled off her shoe and stocking, and chafed her ankle, thrown away upon so unworthy an object, as it did my abhorrence to hear the counterfeit shrieks and groans of my mistress, and the assurance with which she attributed the swellings caused by debauchery, to this immediate accident. 
This affrighted the young lady so, that she in a manner forced her to send for a surgeon, which with much intreaty she yielded to do, but it must be for a friend of her own, a gentleman who lived a considerable way off, at the polite end of the town, for she could not think of letting any common low-lived fellow come near her. 
Upon this, a porter was directly dispatched for her own surgeon, and in the mean time, as she began to grow easier, she recovered her spirits, and renewed the conversation that had been broken off by this accident. 
'I was telling you, my dear friend (said she) for so I shall ever call you from this moment, your kindness having compleated the conquest which your beauty 
[Page 167]
had before made of my heart, I was telling you, that I was going to visit a family this morning, where I promised myself the highest joy that a human heart is capable of feeling, in lightening the distress of the virtuous, by sharing with them some of that wealth which heaven has abundantly blessed me with, and which can justly be applied to no other use, than making this grateful return to that goodness which bestowed it. 
'But my heart was too elate with the thought, and I receive this accident as a caution from heaven not to flatter myself with any thing so strongly for the future. But though I could not have this pleasure myself, the benefit shall not be delayed to them. I will make you my almoner; an office that I know will suit the goodness of your heart. You shall give this packet, which will put an end to all their distresses.' 
'Oh madam! your good opinion is the greatest honour to me (replied the lady) and I hope I shall never forfeit it, especially in this commission, which I shall undertake with the most sincere joy; but pray dear madam who are the persons to whom I must dispense your goodness?' 

[Page 168]
'That's true, my dear (returned my mistress) I should give you some account of them, that you may be the better able to judge of the joy I feel in serving them. It is the widow of an officer, who has been killed in this war, and left her with three poor babes, destitute of every support, but the allowance of the government, which, wretched as it is, and only aggravating misery by barely prolonging life under it, is often gasped for by the hungry mouth in vain, where interest is wanting to procure the immediate relief of it, as was her unhappy case, so that they must have actually perished for want of food, had not providence brought them into my knowledge, seemingly by the greatest accident, about six months ago, since when, I have myself afforded them the necessary comforts of life, and have also made such interest for them, with some of my friends, that I have here got them a grant of a pension, on the Irish establishment, sufficient to bring up the children, and make the remainder of the mother's days happy; for, my dear, I never do any thing by halves-Good God, child! what is the matter with you? what do you weep so for?'- 

[Page 169]
'Nothing, dear madam (replied the lady) nothing; I only sympathize in the distress of the poor widow''But, my dear, that distress is now as an end.' -'O madam, let me carry her the blessing! let me not delay her happiness a moment! Who knows but her heart is this minute bursting with the dreadful apprehensions, of want for herself, and her dearer infants!' -'With all my heart madam; but you will please to order a chair to be called to carry me home, when you go; for I cannot stay here alone.' -'Dear madam, forgive my rudeness; I beg your pardon, pray forgive me: the distress of the widow put every thing out of my head; indeed it did; pray excuse me.' -'Excuse you, my dear, I honour the heart that feels another's woe; you shall go directly; you shall be the messenger of glad tidings to them. But my dearest young lady, give me leave to tell you, that I fear you have not answered me sincerely; I fear your tears flow from some other cause, than mere sympathy; speak, my child! does any thing affect your own heart? Can I any way be serviceable to you? Command me freely, and make me happy in serving one for whom my heart has conceived so tender an esteem! Speak as 
[Page 170]
you would to your own mother, and wrong not my friendship with a doubt.' - 'O madam, madam! (replied the mourner, as soon as sobbing permitted utterance) I have no mother to make my complaint to; I am the wretched widow you have described! A widow without support, without friends, or any other hope, than just in heaven!' - 'And heaven will raise you friends, my dearest child! heaven has raised you a friend in me! You shall be my child! I look upon you as my own! as a gift from heaven, from this moment! You shall leave this place this very day! it is not fit for my child! I will take a lodging for you, near myself, till my nephew, who is lately come to town to see me, goes home; and then you shall live with me for ever.' 
Saying these words, she threw her arms round her destined victim, and wiped away the tears that flowed down her cheeks, while a variety of passions filled her tender heart almost to bursting. 

[Page 171]

CHAP. VI. 

The history of the young lady. She is critically interrupted by the arrival of an unexpected person. She is reconciled to her father, who rewards the woman of the house, and resolves to punish the bawd. 
When she had recovered herself a little, my mistress thus resumed her lore; 'Weep not my dearest child, all will be well. And have you any dear little infants too?' -'Oh no! my wretchness, thank heaven, is all my own!' -'But may I, my dear, ask your name, and the circumstances of your story! I would know all, that nothing may be unredressed.' -'You are all goodness, madam! My story, alas, has few circumstances, and they are all distresses! I lost my mother while I was yet a child: my father left me in the country to the care of a governess, the wife of his chaplain, who educated me in the sentiments of piety and virtue. When I was scarce fourteen, I returned the love of her son, the most deserving and most lovely of his sex, who was two 
[Page 172]
years older than me: but young as we were, we concealed our passion, till my father obtained him a commission in the army; when, on the regiment's being ordered to America, I yielded to his fears of losing me, and consented to a private marriage, which was soon discovered by a letter's falling into my father's hands, who in his rage, turned my husband's father and mother, and me, out of doors, nor would ever see us more. A small vicarage afforded us a present support. My mother-in-law soon died; the suspicion of her having betrayed the confidence of my father, and been instrumental in my marriage, breaking her heart; as did the account of my husband's death, his father's. I then was left quite destitute; and have since supported a wretched being, by my work, which the honest woman of this house takes in for me, without the least hope of relief in this world, till your goodness has, this day taken compassion on me.' -'And what is your father's name, my dear'-'That I have never yet revealed, as I would willingly hide the disgrace, my distress may be thought to him; but with you I need not use that caution; his name is'- 
Just at this word, the surgeon, who had been sent for, to my mistress, entered, and presented a new scene. 

[Page 173]
At the first sight of this person, the young lady gave a great shriek, and swooned away. The gentleman stood a moment stupified with astonishment, when turning hastily to my mistress, 'Is this the lady?' (said he) -'Aye, and a lovely one she is (answered she) but help me to raise her up, when you will see her better; she has been just telling me her story, and the grief of it has over come her! it is a moving one; and she must be our own.'- 
'Oh, my child! my child!' (exclaimed he in a transport) and spurning my mistress from her with his foot, raised her himself, and leaned her head upon his bosom, kissing her, and almost smothering her with his tears. 'Oh my poor child! what have you escaped! what have you endured!' 
It is impossible to describe the situation of my mistress at this scene. She saw the error she had been guilty of, in introducing a woman to whom she was a stranger; and was aware of the danger, with which the horror of such an interview on such an occasion, threatened her. While therefore the father seemed wrap'd in an extasy, that made him as insensible as his daughter, she thought it her best way to retire from the first burst of his anger, and forgetting her sprained ankle, was going directly away; 
[Page 174]
but he perceived her intent, and calling her with a voice, that nailed her to the ground, 'stir not, upon your life (said he) I will have this whole mystery cleared up.' 
His daughter, just then, opening her eyes, and finding herself laid upon her father's bosom, love, respect, duty, fear, and joy, filled her heart with such a variety of passions, that she sunk under their weight, and swooned again. 
This embarrassed the father almost to distraction, till the woman of the house coming in, with her assistance she was at length recovered, for my mistress was so terrified, that she did not dare to approach her. 
As soon as the lady had lightened her heart by a flood of tears, she threw herself at her father's feet, unable either to look up, or speak to him. Moved with the mute eloquence of her grief, and melting in the warmth of nature, he raised her from the ground, and spoke to her in these words. 'Be comforted, my child! I am! I will be your father! But tell me what has passed between you and this vile woman!' -'Oh sir, is she not my best, my only friend? Has she not restored me to your love?' - 'Have a care child! she your friend! then you are lost beyond recovery indeed! 
[Page 175]
She is a reproach to her sex! to human nature!' -'Oh sir! how can that be? did she not bring you here, to me? does not that shew her virtue, and compassion to my distress'-'Compose yourself a little, child! it is true, she brought me here; but tell me, I charge you, on what terms she told you, I was to come; and how she came to interest herself in your affairs! Fear not, but speak the truth.' 
On this she told him the whole of her acquaintance with my mistress, and by what accident, and in what character she imagined he had been sent for; but that, as soon as she saw him enter the room, she thought my mistress must have been acquainted with her story, and had taken this method of introducing her to him, in hopes the surprize, and sight at her distress, might operatate on his compassion. 
Truth forces conviction. He was satisfied with the account she gave him; and taking her again in his arms, 'I have found you again, my child (said he) and I will never lose you more! Be the errors of your youth; be my severity forgotten! From henceforth you are my child, and I will be your father! as to that vile wretch, know, that her whole acquaintance, with you, was sought with a premeditated design 
[Page 176]
of betraying you to ruin. She told me the whole, nearly as you have done; and encouraged by your distress, of which she had gotten some general hints, but ignorant who you were, she laid the scheme of this pretended accident, to get admission into your house; for she well knew where you lived; and then sent for me to a place I had appointed, that I might come and see you, under the appearance of a surgeon; that if I liked you, I might have the preference of her interest in you: for so deep had she laid her scheme, that you could not have escaped her: the trial would have been too great for human fortitude! and this most execrable mystery of iniquity did she undertake for the paultry reward of 50 l. which I must take the shame upon myself to own, I had promised her, little imagining that I was bargaining for the seduction of my own innocent child. But I see, I acknowledge the hand of heaven in this whole affair, that has thus opened my eyes to the danger of such a licentious course of life, and made the recovery of my child the means, and the reward of my conversion! 
'Weep not, my dear; justly may you turn your eyes with detestation from such 
[Page 177]
a fiend: But I shall take care that she meets a just reward; while you prepare to go home with me, for I will not leave you a moment in this scene of horror.' - 'Oh, mercy, mercy, my lord! (cried my mistress) have mercy on me! nor overwhelm with your anger a wretched creature, whose remorse is a load too great to bear.' -'Away vile wretch (replied he, in a rage) nor dare to speak another word! and here fellow (calling to the porter who had directed him to the house) bring me the parish constable.' 
While the porter went for him, my mistress, wretched now indeed, her guilty fear magnifying her danger, stood trembling, but afraid to essay his pity with another word. 
After he had walked a turn or two about the room, his daughter entered, and with her the woman of the house with her little effects, which were soon packed up; at the sight of them his countenance softened: 'well, my dear, (said he to his daughter) I see you are ready to come with me; but I must wait a moment to do justice to the wretch who brought me hither. Plead not for her! I would not have you ever sue to me in vain, again; and any thing in her favour I cannot yield! But 
[Page 178]
my justice shall not be only severe, nor confined to her alone. You have said that this honest woman has been a friend to you! she shall be rewarded. Here, good-woman, is the sum of money I was to have given this vile creature for my daughter, in another sense. Take it, as the reward of your honesty and kindness to her; and call on her, every year of your life for the same sum.' 
The poor woman took it, with a reverence, but was unable to speak her gratitude, her heart was so full, while his daughter dropped suddenly on her knees, and raising her hands and eyes to heaven, exclaimed in rapture, Oh pour, thy blessings, heaven, on his head, who thus dispenses happiness on all who merit itAs she said these words, the constable came, into whose charge his lordship gave my mistress, to be taken to a justice of the peace, whither he appointed to follow her; and then handed his daughter into a coach, in which he took her directly home. 

[Page 179]

CHAP. VII. 

The address of Chrysal's mistress, and civility of a constable. She arrives at the justice's, and is sifted and softened by his clerk, and terrified by his worship. Chrysal changes his service. 
As soon as this happy couple were gone, my mistress recovered her spirits, and smiled with contempt, at a danger she had often gone through before, without harm. 'And so (says she) master constable; I am given in charge to you! and for what pray? But I am no such novice, as to yield myself a prisoner, till I see proper authority to hold me; therefore, Sir, I shall wish you a good morning: if you please, you may go tell his lordship, that I was not at leisure to wait for him, at the justice's; and because you may be dry after your walk, here is a crown to drink my health.' 
'I thank you mistress (replied the magistrate, taking the money) but in the mean time, you must come! I am sorry I cannot let you go.' -'Cannot let me go! 
[Page 180]
pray, Sir, where is your authority to keep me?' -'Here, mistress! (producing his staff)'-'But your warrant?' - 'Oh! as for that, I'll make bold to do without one this time; and take you to the justice on my own authority, and his lordship's request; and so, mistress, you had better come along, for I am in haste: you may have a coach if you please.' - 'Aye, so I will, to carry me home; and here's something for you to pay the coachman (putting a guinea into his hand)'-'Tis very well, mistress, I will see you safe home, to be sure, if you desire it; and the justice gives you leave; for to him we must go directly.' -'Then give me my money; and be assured you shall answer for this false imprisonment.' -'Your money, mistress! why, aye! so I will, if I do not earn it.' -'Then let me go home this moment.' -'No, no, mistress! that I cannot do, till you have been to visit his worship; and then I will see you safe home, if he gives me leave, and drink your health into the bargain; and that was what you gave me the money for: come, come, mistress! one of your trade should know better things, than to ask for money back again! Have I not 
[Page 181]
shewed you all the civility in my power? Do you think I would stand preaching with you here this hour for nothing! come along, the coach is at the door.' 
I saw you were surprized at the address and turn of expression in my mistress's conversation with this young lady, before the arrival of her father, as above her sphere; but nature had given her a capacity equal to any thing, and her intercourse, with the polite world, had gained her an ease of behaviour, and elegance of expression, that made every condition of life seem natural to her. As to the story of the family, whom she was going to relieve, she had actually prepared one of her confederates to have acted that part, so that the lord might justly say, her design was laid so well, that it was next to impossible for her to miss of success. For by this deceit she would have gained the young Lady's confidence, to receive favours from her, and when she had her in her debt, she thought she could make her own terms. 
As soon as my mistress and her conductor were come into the antichamber of justice, the clerk recognizing her, addressed her thus: 'Good-morrow, mistress-Pray what has got us the favour of your company? You have been so great a stranger 
[Page 182]
of late, that I was beginning to think we had lost you,'-'Pray Sir (said she) let me speak a word with you in the next room.' -On which he ordered her to be shewn in, and only waited to ask the constable, by whom, and for what she was sent there, who was able to give him no other answer, than that the lord had ordered him to bring her, and said he would follow himself directly. 
Having got this full information, the clerk came into the room to my mistress, and told her, with a look of importance and concern, that he was sorry to see her, on so bad an account'So bad an account, Sir? (said she) why! pray what do you think I am brought here for? nothing in this world! they can charge me with nothing but intention; and I hope that is not punishable by the law!' -'I hope it will appear so (replied he) but (shrugging up his shoulders) my lord has sent a message here, that has another appearance!' -'And pray, Sir, what does my lord charge me with?' - 'You'll excuse my revealing the secrets of a privy counsellor! He will be here too soon, I am afraid, to tell you himself.' 
Versed as my mistress was in all the wiles of man, the look and manner of his saying 
[Page 183]
these words, alarmed her conscious fears. 
'Pray Sir (said she) what has his lordship said? or, if you do not think proper to tell me that; at least, you can direct me how to make the best defence against his designs! I shall not be ungrateful! you know I never was.' -'Why that's true, madam (replied he) and indeed I should take great pleasure in serving you, and getting you out of this hole, but my lord, you know, is a great man, and can, in a manner, do what he pleases with poor people.' -'Pray, Sir, can I speak a word to the justice?' -'I fear he is engaged just now; besides, it is so long since he has seen or heard from you, that I believe you must expect but little favour from him.' -'Why that is the very thing I would speak to him about; and believe me, it was my business out so early this morning, till I was delayed by this unlucky accident.' -'As for that matter, you know you may say any thing to me, as well as to him, and I can tell him.' -'That is true; why, all I have to say to him at present, is to beg his acceptance of these five guineas for his past favours, and his advice how to get out of this scrape; and pray do you take these three for your trouble. I am sorry I have no more to offer, but really the times 
[Page 184]
are very bad, and little or no money stirring among the gentlemen; beside, all my ladies have been very unlucky of late, and the doctor, you know, must be always paid in hand.' -'I am sorry things go so badly with you; I will speak to the justice, and let you know what he says, and you may depend on my friendship and interest at all times; though I am afraid this is a very bad affair. I will go to him directly, and return to you, as soon as possible.' 
I here left my mistress to her meditations, having been one of the pieces she had given to the clerk. You may imagine I was glad to leave such a service, though I could not promise myself much pleasure, beside variety, in the exchange, from what I had already seen of that, which I was entering into. 
The justice was in his office, busied in examining the informations of some of his people, who had made some lucky hits the evening before. On a wink from his clerk, they were all ordered to withdraw, when reaching me, and four more of my brethren, to his worship; 'here, Sir (said he) five guineas from Mrs--!' -'So then, (replied he) she has thought proper to come at last.' -'To come? no, no, Sir! she has been brought, or 
[Page 185]
else I believe you would have hardly seen her.' -'The ungrateful jade: but what is the matter now?' -'I really cannot well tell; nor does the constable know any more, than that my lord--- ordered him to bring her, and said that he should follow himself.' -'My lord? then I must be ready to receive him properly. He is a great man: quick! reach me my green velvet cap, red slippers, and new gown, and open half a score of those books, the largest of them, and lay them on that great table, as if I had been referring. There! now I look like a justice! and bid those gentry, I was speaking to, go backwards till my lord is gone: He must not see such faces; they might prejudice him against us; and he is a great man: so! now I'll open the new justice, and his lordship may come as soon as he pleases.' 
Just as all things were thus prepared for his lordship's reception, in proper formality, a servant brought a note from him, to let his worship know, he could not come himself that morning, but desired he would take proper care of the woman he had ordered to be taken before him, who kept an house of bad fame in such a street, where, upon the least enquiry, he would not fail to 
[Page 186]
find sufficient matter against her, from her neighbours. 
Though his lordship's not coming was a disappointment to his worship, after the preparations he had made to receive him; and baulked him of an important advertisement for the next morning, yet the general wording of his note gave him some consolation, as it might seem to authorize any measures he might please to take, to squeeze the criminal before him'This may do (said he to his clerk) this may do something: but we must proceed with caution, for Mrs-- is an old hand: let her be called in; I'll soften her a little first, and then you may work upon her after as you please.' 
As soon as she came in, his worship accosted her thus:-'So, mistress; this is a fine affair; I knew what your doings would come to, at last; I have often warned you; but you would take no advice; and now you see the consequence! -Do, make her mittimus! I must wait upon his lordship; and I cannot go till she is committed!' -'Committed! dear your worship, for what must I be committed? I have done nothing.' -'No! to be sure you have done nothing! his lordship would prosecute you so severely for nothing: Look 
[Page 187]
at this letter! do you know this handwriting? His lordship has here given me an account of the whole affair, and desired that I would proceed against you, with the utmost rigour of the law! I have already sent to search your house.' 
This word compleated the terrors, into which the fight of his lordship's well-known hand had thrown her; and deprived her of all resolution and presence of mind. She burst into tears, and throwing herself on her knees, 'Oh, good your worship! dear Mr. Clerk (said she) advise me: assist me to get over this misfortune! here is my watch; it cost 50l. at a pawn-broker's but a month ago; it is a repeater! take it, Mr. Justice! Mr. Clerk, here are my rings! they are the only valuable things I have: take them, and help me out at this dead lift: send, and stop the people from going into my poor house; I shall be blown up! the gentlemen will all desert me: I shall be ruined, just when I have brought things to a little bearing: help me but this once, and I never will give you cause to complain of me again: I will always be punctual to my promise.' 

[Page 188]

CHAP. VIII. 

She is discharged on proper bail. The labours of Chrysal's new master, in the service of the public, with some of the various mysteries of his office. 
The work was now done, and a wink having settled the cue between the justice and his clerk, the latter began thus: 'If I may presume to advise your worship, though this is a very bad affair to be sure, yet as it is not quite felony, by the statute, I am humbly of opinion, that if bail could be got'-'Dear Mr. clerk, I am obliged to you.' -'But then consider, my Lord is a great man.' -'That is true, please you worship; but the law is greater than any man, and the law is very tender of the liberty of the subject, and says expresly in the statute In favore libertis, that no person shall be confined that can get bail; and beside, who knows, if she was at liberty, but she might find means to be reconciled to his lordship; and so all would be well.' -'Dear Mr. clerk, that is true; I could easily be reconciled to him; 
[Page 189]
I know how to gain his favour, when his anger is a little cooled.' -'Why, Mrs. if you are quite sure of that, I believe we may venture to bail you: but where are your friends?' -'Dear your worship, I have no friends; I have nothing to make friends with; I throw myself upon you, gentlemen!' -'Why really this is a nice case, but if you'll step into the next room, we will consider what can be done for you.' -'Oh! but send and stop the men that went to my house!' -'Never fear, they were not to go without further orders.' 
When she was gone out, 'Well (said the justice) this has been a good bit, it makes up for the bad week: but cannot you guess what this matter is?' -'Not a word of it (replied the clerk) she has not dropped a syllable herself, that could let me the least into it, and I would not discover my ignorance by asking her any questions. But I suppose it is only some trick she has played my lord, about a girl, for you know she has often told us, that he was one of her best customers, and boasted of his protection; and if it is no more than that, as I imagine, he will think no more of it, and so the best way is to let her go, for indeed we cannot keep her, if we would; though to keep 
[Page 190]
up the form, for fear she should smell us out, she must have some bail: and therefore I'll go and fill a bond, and make a couple of our people put on their bailing cloaths, and come and sign with her, though I do not think she has money left to pay for the bond, or make the fellows drink: but she has done pretty well already, that is the truth.' 
Saying this, he went out, and in a little time returned with my late mistress, and two of the fellows, the shabbiness of whose appearance had made his worship order them out of the lord's sight just before, now dressed out like reputable house-keepers, who gravely signed with my mistress, without ever asking what; and, upon her returning a negative shrug, to a wink from the clerk, went out, without a word. 
The business was now over, and my late mistress dismissed to follow her occupation, and make up, by double diligence, for the misfortunes of that morning, only with an assurance to the clerk, that she would remember his kindness, and be punctual for the future. 
I was now entered into a service, where I had an opportunity of seeing into the whole mystery of justice: but you must not expect that I should reveal all the secrets of so 
[Page 191]
venerable a trade; though I may give a few general hints for your information, in so abstruse and intricate a science. 
The affair of my late mistress was the last of that morning. My worshipful master putting me into his purse, and going directly to dinner, which had waited for him some time. But though his fare was good, his care for the public would not permit him to make long meals, or debauch away his time. After a short refreshment of only two hours, he returned to his office, where he reassumed his labours, in all the various branches of his extensive employment The first thing he looked into, was the informations, which the affair of my mistress had interrupted in the morning, as I told you before; when calling his people, one after another, before him, he went through them regularly, in this manner: 'John Gibbet, you here inform me that you have found out the person who took the gentleman's hat, in the quarel in Chelsea fields, last Sunday evening, which you think to make a robbery of: Let me hear the circumstances of that affair, for you are so keen a blood-hound, when you get upon any scent, that you are for making every thing robbery, be the case what it will.' 

[Page 192]
'Please your worship (replied Gibbet, turning the quid in his cheek, and squirting out the juice) I do all things for the best, and that you know; and that I have brought many things to bear, which nobody else would undertake, as witness that affair on Shuter's-hill, that got you so much credit, and money too.' -'Why that is true, John; but then you should remember also the cursed scrape you brought me into about the young fellow who wrote the threatening letters to the farmer, about burning his barns; you undertook to prove that too: but you know how you left me in the lurch, after I had gone such lengths, as bad like to have ruined me. Plain swearing will not always do, though never so home; you should remember that: you should attend to circumstances also: but as to this affair, let me hear what you can make of it?' 
'Your worship must know, that I, and two or three more of our people, having nothing to do, shammed a quarrel, in which a gentleman, who was coming by, lost his hat. It was a large hat, with a very broad gold lace, such as your foreigners wear; it was I that shoved off the hat, and seeing a shabby idle-looking young fellow standing by, without one, I took it up, and asking him if it was his, 
[Page 193]
reached it to him, and saw him make off with it directly. Now if this is not a plain robbery, I do not know what is! a fellow runs away with a gentleman's hat, who advertises it, with a reward for taking the thief, whom he will prosecute! now I have found out the fellow's haunts, for indeed I dogged him, and will have himself whenever you please, and can clench the prosecution, by swearing that I saw him carry off the hat; and you know I need say no more, nor take any notice who gave it to him.' 
'Why, John, there may be something in this affair I like it very well, John! and so clerk, you may enter him on the list, for next sessions. This affair has a good look; nor is there any thing unjust in it; for though you gave him the hat; as he knew it was not his own, and yet carried it off, he is guilty of the theft, and that is the same as robbery, in justice, though it may not in law; and justice is the thing to go by, with a safe conscience. And so you may go, John, I will let you know when it will be proper to have him taken up, only have an eye to him, for fear any one else should snap him out of our handsWho comes next! Richard Sly, you say you have found out the knot of young fellows that have began to infest the 
[Page 194]
streets for some nights past.' -'Aye, please your worship (says Sly, shrugging up his shoulders, and grinning) I have found them out, to be sure; and well I might! for it was I first set them on the lay.' -'How, Richard! take care of what you say!' - Oh, your worship, never fear Dick Sly for a slippery trick! I know what I say very well: I have known for some time that these youths have been playing a small game, cribbing from the till, and building sconces, and such like tricks, that there was no taking hold of; I therefore thought it would be right to bring them to justice, at any rate, and so laid the plan of this gang, and entered them into the business myself, and now, whenever you have a mind to nub them, you need only take me up, and I can peach them all, which will be no bad affair, there are so many of them.' -'Why that is true, Richard; but they have done nothing yet that deserves so severe a remedy as the gallows! therefore let them alone; perhaps they may mend: or if they do not, it will be time enough to take them up when they deserve it more than now. To be sure, your peaching them, who first drew them in, is not so very just; but then the law will support you in it, and while a man has the law of his side, he may laugh at the 
[Page 195]
gallows. And so Richard, have a good look out till these youths are ripe for Tyburn, and then your harvest will come.' 
It would be endless to go through this whole business particularly. Be it sufficient to say, that there was no breach of the laws, which some of his people did not give him an information of, and almost all, as accomplices, while his whole care was to consider, which could turn most to his advantage, in the conviction, and to settle the evidence against them, so as it might be sure not to miscarry. 
CHAP. IX. 

An highway-man, improperly taken, saves his life, by losing his reason. Judicial sagacity, and eloquence triumphant over common-sense, and matter of fact. This mystery explained. 
While he was in the midst of this business, he was surprized with the news of an highway-man, that moment brought in by a gentleman who had taken him, in the very attempt of robbing him on Turnham-Green. This threw the whole house into an uproar,-'An highwayman 
[Page 196]
taken, and by the very party! (exclaimed the justice in an agony of rage and vexation) This is most unfortunate; there is 40l. dead loss, beside the shame of it: how shall I support my consequence, if other people can serve the publick without my assistance?' 
'I wonder who it can be (said the clerk) I suppose the man on the white mare, or the mask, from Putney-Common! but whoever it is, something must be done! He must be saved this time, to save our credit, and we may have him the next, ourselves! Here they come: do you keep the gentleman in discourse, while I speak to the prisoner, and see how he can come down. I shall readily give you your cue.' 
Just then entered the gentleman with his prisoner, whom they directly knew to be an old offender, who had long baffled their pursuit: a circumstance, that heightened the vexation of his being taken by another, and was not a little favourable to him at this time. 
His worship received the gentleman most politely, and desired him to sit down a moment; till he should finish a letter he was writing to the secretary of state, and then he would attend to his business, ordering the 
[Page 197]
prisoner to be removed into another room for the mean time. 
He then sate himself down to write, with great deliberation, and had just finished, when his clerk came to deliver him a letter from the lord mayor, which he read over attentively, and saying it was very well, he then turned to the gentleman, and asking his pardon for making him wait so long, ordered the prisoner to be brought in. 
The highway-man appeared now a quite different person from what he did, when he was in the room a few minutes before; his looks, which were then clouded with the gloom of listless dejection and despair, being inflamed into the fiercest agitations of phrenzy. 
The gentleman shewed his surprize at this change, as did his worship his uneasiness for his own safety, from the fury of so outrageous a madman. As soon as he was secured; the justice addressing himself, with the height of judicial solemnity, to the prosecutor, 'Pray Sir (said he) will you please to inform me what you have to alledge against this unhappy person?' -'Sir (replied the gentleman) all I have to say, is, that he stopped me this afternoon, upon Turnham-Green, and presenting a pistol at me, bid me deliver my money, but being 
[Page 198]
well armed, and having more about me than I chose to lose, instead of my purse, I drew a pistol too, and his missing fire, I grappled with, and took him on the spot, and from thence brought him directly here: that is all I have to say, Sir!' 
'And pray, Sir, what did he say when you had taken him?' -'Not a word, Sir, nor has he spoke a syllable since; nor answered any one question he has been asked.' -'Aye, 'tis so! poor gentleman, it is so! -And pray, Sir, did he make much resistance when you took him?' -'The utmost he was able; but being better mounted, and much stronger than him, I soon overpowered him, though not without great danger, for after I had him down, he drew this knife, and very narrowly missed plunging it into my body! You see what a cut he made in my coat and waistcoat!' -'Aye, poor man, madness is always desperate: I fear, Sir, you have been too hasty in this affair.' -'How, Sir, too hasty, to take a man in the very action of highway robbery? I do not understand you, Sir!' 
'Sir, I mean that this person is no robber, but an unhappy gentleman of family and fortune, who has been for some time out of his mind. I have been applied to by his relations, 
[Page 199]
more than once, to try to have him apprehended, that he might be confined; and now he is secured, they will take proper care of him, that he shall not frighten any body for the future; for I am satisfied, Sir, that was all he meant; and that he would not have taken your money, had you offered it to him: I suppose you searched him, when you had overpowered him, poor man, as you justly termed it! Pray, Sir, did you find any thing upon him, to make you think he was an highway-man? Any watches! jewels! or different purses of money? or more money than you might think it probable a person of his appearance might commonly carry about him?' 
'No really, Sir, I did not find any thing like what you mention! this purse, which seems to have about 30 or 40 guineas in it, (for I have not reckoned them) was the only thing in all his pockets, except the knife which he drew on me; his pistols were openly in his saddle, as gentlemen commonly wear them.' 
'Very well, and does not his present behaviour and whole conduct in this affair convince you, that the unhappy man could have no felonious intent, in his mad attack upon you: for men, mad as he is, have no intention there at all; and, without a felonious intent, 
[Page 200]
there can be no robbery: but, I presume, you may understand something of the law yourself, Sir?' 
'No indeed, Sir, I cannot say I know any more law, than just not to wrong any person, nor let them wrong me, if I can help it, as far as common sense will direct me: I thank God, I have spent my days quietly in the country, and never had a dispute with any man in my life.' 
'Common sense, dear Sir! common sense is a blind guide in matters of law! Law and common-sense are quite different things; but as I was saying, Sir, where there is no felonious intent, there can be no felony; now robbery is punished only because it is felony, for so the indictment must be laid; Felonice, Sir, Felonice, or it will not do! The indictment will be quashed without that word; and who can charge a man with a felonious intent, who is disordered in mind, and can have no intention at all. 'Tis true, the appearance was bad, and sufficiently terrifying, to authorize your apprehending him; but as you suffered neither loss, nor hurt, I cannot suppose, that a gentleman of your humane appearance would desire to add to the misery of his present unhappy condition, that of imprisonment till the next sessions, when he must be acquitted of course, as that would certainly 
[Page 201]
make his madness for ever incurable; -Whatever expence you have been at in bringing him here, I will take upon me to reimburse you, out of the money in his purse, beside what gratification you please to require, for your own time and trouble! This, Sir, is what I would recommend to you, as a Christain and a gentleman, as you appear to be: but if you are of another opinion, you must only swear to your information, and enter into a recognizance of prosecution, while I sign his mittimus, and send word to his friends, who are people of condition.' 
'Indeed, Sir, you judge very rightly of me; I would not aggravate the distress of any human being! If you know the unhappy man, and that he is under so severe an affliction, as the loss of reason, I have nothing farther to say, than that I am sorry for his misfortune, and would not for the world be the cause of heightening it, as I had no motive for apprehending him, but the duty which I and every member owe the publick. I thank heaven for my own escape from him, and do not desire to make any advantage of it. As to the people who assisted me in bringing him hither, they are still unpaid, and you know best how to deal with them, so 
[Page 202]
I leave the whole affair to you, and am Your humble servant.' 
I have not interrupted this account, with any notice of the behaviour of the criminal, as it consisted only of the most outragious imitation of madness, with imprecations and blasphemies too horrid for repetition. 
As soon as the gentleman was gone, and the room cleared of all, but the justice, his clerk and the madman, who was left bound to keep up the farce, his worship thus addressed him. 'So sir, you thought to reign for ever; but you see what your feats have come to! I suppose you are surprized at the pains I have taken to bring you through this affair! -'Not at all sir, (replied the criminal) the bank note for 200 l. which I had concealed in the sleeve of my coat, and gave your clerk' -'How, sir, (said the justice in a rage) do you pretend to say it was upon any such account? But you judge of others by yourself. However, I shall not stand to argue the matter with you now; you have escaped for this time, and may be glad of it! but take care for the future! your luck may not always be so good'- 'Will your worship please to order your people to return me my horse and arms? and I hope you will give me my purse; for life without 
[Page 203]
something to support it is no great obligation.' -'What sir! do you pretend to capitulate! Your horse you shall have, not that you have any right to expect him, but because it would not be proper to keep him, after the representation that imposed upon the fool who took you; and here are half a score guineas to carry you to some place where you are not known, and to maintain you till you can get into some honest way of earning your bread. The rest is little enough to give the people instead of your horse, and to stop their mouths. You may stay here till the crowd is dispersed, when you may go where you please.' -As there was no remedy, the criminal was forced to submit; nor indeed did he seem much dissatisfied at the heaviness of his composition. 

[Page 204]

CHAP. X. 

An instance of his worship's exemplary justice on a shop-lifter. The unfashionable compassion and generosity of a sailor. A dispute about superiority of skill between his worship and his clerk, opens new mysteries in the profession. 
It was now pretty late, and my master was just retiring to supper, pleased with having made so good a day, when he was stopped by more business. A woman who kept a chandler's shop, in the next street, had dragged before him one of her poor neighbours, whom she had caught in the very fact of stealing a pound of cheese off her counter, as she was reaching her a two-penny loaf from the shelf: a crime that was heightened by ingratitude too, as she was giving her the loaf on trust; the thief having owned to her, that she had not a farthing in the world to pay for it, nor a morsel to give her three small children, who had been fasting the whole day. 
Enraged at the heinousness of the crime, and at being kept from supper, while the 
[Page 205]
chickens and asparagus were cooling on the table, his worship, knitting his brows, and putting on all the magistrate, asked the trembling wretch, with a voice that pierced her soul,-'What she had to say for herself, and whether she was guilty of the crime laid to her charge, or not.'- 
The poor creature, almost dead with wretchedness, want, and fear, threw herself at his feet, and pouring out a flood of tears, that for some moments choaked her utterance, 'O mercy! mercy! (said she) for the love of the sweet Jesus, have mercy on a poor wretch, whom want alone compelled to this first offence, to save the lives of three poor infants, who are this moment perishing with hunger. Oh, send, and prove the truth of what I say; send and learn their misery, and it will move you to relieve them, and then I care not what becomes of me.' - 'Very fine truely! if we admit such excuses for shop-lifting, there will be enough ready to plead them. Here, make her mittimus; she confesses the fact; as for her brats, bastards too, I suppose, let them be sent to the work-house'-'Oh the poor creatures! they are not bastards; and they have no parish to be sent to. My husband is a sailor, who was pressed on board a man of 
[Page 206]
war six years ago, and has been in the West-Indies ever since, till this summer, when the ship was ordered home to be laid up. Poor soul! he thought he should be paid off, and so wrote me word to Corke, to come to him, for he meant to go and settle in Scotland, his own country; but the moment he came to Portsmouth, he was turned over into another ship, without getting a shilling of his six years wages or prize-money, and sent away directly to America; so that, after spending every penny I had in the world, to come to him from Ireland, as he desired, I am left here with my poor children, to starve in a strange place, where no-body has any compassion for me, though my husband wrote me word, that he had above 300l. due to him for wages and prize-money; here is his letter! I never go without it! it is all the comfort I have in my distress.' 
'Aye, I thought so! I thought you were one of those Irish thieves that came to rob us, and cut our throats! but I shall take care of you! I shall make you wish you had continued eating potatoes at home. I wish I could provide as well for every one of your country! we shall never be well, till we have hang'd you all.' -'Oh good your worship! I am no thief; I never stole any thing 
[Page 207]
before. And this woman, who has brought me before you, knows the truth of every thing I have told your worship; and that I have always paid her honestly while I had a penny in the world; for I have dealt with her ever since I came to London; but hunger, and the cries of three starving children, forced me to this! Oh my children, my children!' -'Peace, woman! all you can say signifies nothing; you were taken in the fact, and to Newgate you shall go directly. And as for your brats, it is better for them to die of hunger now, than to live to be hanged like their mother.'- 
By this time, the mittimus was ready, which he signed without the least hesitation or pity, and then hurried away to his supper, having almost fretted his bowels out, to think it was spoiled by waiting so long. 
But though the Justice's compassion could not be moved, by such a poor wretch, his clerk was not so inexorable, but yielded to the persuasion of an honest tar, who seeing a croud at the door, had given six-pence to go in, and see the fun; and for two guineas, which barely paid the fees, ventured to make up the affair, and let her go about her business, though he did not know what might be the consequence, if it should ever come to his worship's knowledgeJack took no notice of 
[Page 208]
what he said, but taking the poor creature, who was just sinking under the agitations of fear, joy, and gratitude, by the hand, 'Chear away, sister (said he) chear away; we'll bring up all this lee-way, next trip. Damn my eyes and limbs, if I'll see a brother seaman's family at short allowance, while I have a shilling! come, heave a-head; I'll rig and victual you and your children, against your husband comes, to man you for a voyage home. I'll swing my hammock in the next birth, and you shall cook the kettle, while I stay ashore.' -Saying which words, he led her off in triumphThis the clerk told his worship, when he come in to supper, giving him one of the guineas, as his share of the composition. 
I now thought the business of the day over, and was preparing to take a view of my new master's heart, while he and his clerk where enjoying their success over an hearty bottle. But I was prevented, by an accident, which disturbed for a while, and had like to have entirely broken off this harmony between them, a dispute, like those between all conquerors, arising about the division of the spoil, and the merit in the acquisition of it. 

[Page 209]
'This will do (said his worship, clapping his hands a kimbo, after a full glass) this will do! what between the bawd in the morning, and the highwayman in the afternoon, we have made a noble day of it! But what have you ordered about that fellow? I hope you have taken care that we may have him ourselves next. Never fear (replied the clerk) I have done for him. I have sent people to lay all the roads he can go, from the inn where he ordered his horse; and plausible Tom is fixed there, to scrape an acquaintance with him, so that he cannot escape.' 
'Aye, let Tom alone to manage him; many a cunning fellow's heart has that Tom crept into, till he has wheedled him to Tyburn! Not a lawyer of them all has a smoother tongue. But did not I improve the hint of the madness well? how quietly the gudgeon swallowed it! If I were to set about it, I believe in my soul, I could have persuaded him out of his own senses, and made him think himself mad, as well as the highwayman! ha! ha! ha! Though you were not quite clear enough in your note; you should have told me all the particulars; I was often at a loss; but upon the whole, I think I did pretty well; pretty well, I think!' 

[Page 210]
'Why aye, you did so manage it pretty well, when I had given you the cue, and so might any one have done. But how would you have contrived to bring him off, if I had not made that hit!' -'How! -why easily enough!-'I would have- But what have you done with the bank-note? let me see that!' -'The note! it is safe enough. But you do not tell me, how you would have managed to have earned it; I think you should do that before you ask for it'-'How I would have earned it! why pray, good sir, do you know whom you talk to in this manner?' -'Whom I talk to! -I talk to the worshipful justice -whose betters I have talked to before now; and who would not have asked me that question some years ago, when he applied to me, to instruct him in the business of his office!' -'Insolence! instruct me! I'll make you know sir, that I understand my business, without your instruction! I'll take another clerk to-morrow.' -'With all my heart, good master justice! with all my heart; and see who will be the loser by that. If you do not know it yet, you will soon see then, whether the business comes to the justice or his clerk; for I give you notice, that I shall take all the people with me; you shall have the 
[Page 211]
credit of making up a new set for yourself, I assure you.' -'Very fine! very fine treatment this!' -'Why do you deserve it then, sir, if you do not like it. I say very fine treatment too! that you should take upon you to undervalue my skill, and assume the credit of it to yourself; you, whom I first taught, and still support in your office, in despight of all your blunders! -As for the bank-note, here it is, and here it shall be, till we have settled the account of the last sessions, when you were so clever upon me, sending me, on a fool's errand, out of the way, while you took up the reward. Perhaps you thought I did not see through your design, or that I was afraid to speak of it, but you were quite mistaken; I only waited till the remedy should come into my own hands, and now it has, be assured I shall make use of it, whatever you may think, sir! and farther let me tell you, that if you say much more, I will think of parting in earnest, if you do not think proper to come to a new agreement: for I see no reason why you should carry off two thirds of the profit, only because you are justice indeed, though I do all the business!'- 

[Page 212]

CHAP. XI. 

The breach happily made up by the arrival of company. The evening concluded in character. His worship goes next morning to hear a charity-sermon, and from thence to eat a charity-feast, where Chrysal enters into a new service. Some account of the nature of a charity feast. 
Matters were now at such an height, that I every minute expected they would have proceeded from words to blows, when a pull at the bell brought them both to themselves in an Instant. 
'Hah! that is true! this is quarter-night (said the justice) and here the ladies are come! Give me your hand: why should we fall out about our skill, while the business goes on well: here's my service to you; and let there be no more of it.'- 
'With all my heart (replied the clerk) but why will you urge me on thus, when you know that I cannot bear to have my skill called in question?'- 

[Page 213]
By this time the ladies entered, whom I directly saw to be the commode matrons, and compliant fair, of his district, who came duly to compound with him, for the breach of those laws he was appointed to support. 
The very mention of this scene, sufficiently explains the nature of it, and makes a more particular description unnecessary. All parties behaved properly on the occasion. They paid their subsidies, for which he returned them very wholesome advice, to behave with diligence and discretion in their professions; and especially those who lived in his neighbourhood, he cautioned to avoid all riots, and causes of offence, which might bring his connivance and protection into suspicion; then relaxing from the severity of his morals, he gave up the rest of the night, and a good part of the next morning, to mirth and good-fellowship, in the company of a few of his particular favourites, and best customers of this motly set, having dismissed the rest to the pursuit of their occupations. 
The business of the day, and pleasures of the night, had so far exhausted his spirits, that nature required a long pause: accordingly, no business coming in to disturb him (for such was his vigilance in his office, 
[Page 214]
and care for the public, that every thing gave way to that) he made a late morning, not waking till he was called to attend a sermon and dinner, which were to be that day for the benefit of a charity, to which he was a constant benefactor; as indeed his publick spirit made him, to all that were already established, and prompted him to strike out many new; in which, as the author of them, he hoped to have the management, while novelty should make it the fashion to support them. 
But in this he was always disappointed. For though, in the multitude of his schemes, he sometimes stumbled upon a good one, yet his head was so confused, and his notions so wild and immethodical, that before he could digest his plans into any regularity, some one else took up the hint, and ran away with the credit of the design. 
At church he edified greatly, by a comfortable nap, during the sermon, which finished his refreshment, and sent him with a clear head, and keen stomach, to the feast, where every person seemed to vie, in demonstrating his attachment to the cause of their meeting, by the quantity he eat and drank. 
I here changed my service once more, being given by his worship in his subscription, 
[Page 215]
and so came into the possession of a community in general, which gave me an opportunity of seeing the human heart in a more complicated view, than perhaps any other scene of its actions could afford; as there was hardly a profession, degree, or rank of life, which had not a representative in this meeting, nor a motive of action, however apparently contrary to its design, or contradictory to each other, which did not contribute its influence to the bringing them together. 
While I lay in the hands of the treasurer of the charity, unassigned to any particular use, or person, I enjoyed a state of liberty, something like that of living in a common-wealth, having it in my power to enter into the hearts of all the governors (who were now my owners) as I liked, and to make any observations, without restraint to any particular person, time, or place. 
Charity is the most amiable, and most exalted of the human virtues, and that which rises to the nearest imitation of the divine. Nor can any thing be a stronger proof of the beneficence of the author of the human nature, than his placing this virtue, which is the perfection of it, within the reach of every individual. 

[Page 216]
For charity is a disposition to think well of, and do well to, every other human being, without partiality, prejudice or respect, to any other motive, than this universal duty; giving of alms being no more than one, and that perhaps the very meanest, effect of it. 
But this extensiveness of the nature of charity is the reason of its being generally misconceived, and most erroneously confined to this effect, by minds unable to comprehend its greater excellence; and from this mistake, have proceeded many of the extraordinary instances of this effect of charity, which distinguishes the present age. 
This is a most dangerous error; it is too like thinking to bribe heaven with the wages of hell; and yet profanely absurd as such a notion is, daily observation shews the extensive prevalence of it. 
As charity is such a refined and exalted virtue, and purely spiritual, it must appear strange to you, how it should enter into the head of man, to make so gross, low, and sensual a passion as eating, the foundation of it! Indeed so unnatural is the thought to pure speculation, unacquainted with the perversions of life, that a charity-feast, in the literal meaning of the phrase, must be taken for a meeting of the poor to eat the 
[Page 217]
provisions supplied for them by the rich, instead of the rich meeting to gorge their own appetites. 
But a little observation of the present byas of the world, will solve this difficulty. Of all the natural appetites and passions, which possess that part of mankind, whose age has enabled them to amass money enough to give away, eating is the most universal. I say natural passions, for fraud, avarice, or ambition, or even lust, at that time of life, are not the passions of nature. 
To gratify this, therefore, was the most probable scheme for drawing them together: and when that is sufficiently done, the full heart opens easily, and shares its abundance with the empty. 

[Page 218]

CHAP. XII. 

A representation of the company. The history of one of the principal members. The modern method of bribing heaven with the wages of hell. 
* 9 They had feasted, nor did their minds yet require such another banquet, when I became a member of their society; you must not expect a particular account or description of such a scene. A few general hints must satisfy your curiosity, as I have told you on other occasions. 
Let your imagination represent to you, a number of people, whose highest pleasure is eating, seated at a large table, covered with all the delicacies, all the rarities of the season, in a plenty that promised satiety to their keenest appetitesBut I must stop! I see the very thought has an effect upon you, that savours too strongly of sensuality, and might, if not checked, put a stop to our conversation, by some human hankerings. Let us therefore pass over such a 
[Page 219]
scene, and turn our observation to the company, as they sat, after the fragments of the feast were removed. And here it will be proper to have recourse to the expedient we made use of before, and holding up the mirrour to imagination, view the whole scene as if actually present. 
Observe then, that enormous bulk of flesh, that sits at the head of the table, with his waistcoat all unbuttoned, and gasping for breath; the distension of his stomach having left his lungs scarce room to perform the animal functions, and fat almost choaked the passages of vital air. 
He is one of the principal supporters of this, and every other publick charity, founded on the modern method of a feast, the natural avarice of his heart outwitting itself in this instance; for as he is sure of satiating his appetites with more and better victuals and wine, at these meetings, than he could have at home, for much more than the price of the ticket, the advantage in that bargain, always tempts him to go; and then the happiness of his heart, in the fulness of his stomach, opens his purse, and he subscribes with a liberality that arises almost to profusion. 
But look into his heart, and read the rest of his life: the very money which he 
[Page 220]
bestows with such an appearance of virtue, on this best of uses (for no error in motive, or manner, must take off the merit of an action, that does good) this very money (I say) has perhaps been acquired, by vices the most opposite to the virtues it is applied to. 
The greatest frugality, application, and skill in the mysterious business of a scrivener, have raised this person, from the most abject poverty, to affluence, above the moderation of a rational wish. But so powerful is the force of habit, that though the cause has been long since removed, the effect still remains, and he persists to save and heap up money, by all the mean and iniquitous ways, which want first suggested to him. One instance, and that not singular, in him, will give you a sufficient insight into his character. 
A gentleman, whom indiscretion and indolence of temper, had involved in some pecuniary distresses, had the greater misfortune some years ago, to be recommended to this person, to borrow such a sum of money as should extricate him from his immediate difficulties, on a mortgage of his estate. 
As his security was good, his business was soon done; but the convenience of his estate, to another which this person had 
[Page 221]
lately purchased in his neighbourhood, and an acquaintance with the unwary easiness of his disposition, made him cast a wishful eye upon it, and form schemes for getting it absolutely into his possession. 
At first he strove to tempt his indiscretion, by the offer of more money to supply his pleasures, but finding that would not take, and that the sense of his former extravagances dwelt so strongly on him, as to give his mind a kind of turn to industry, did he know how to apply it, his ready genius struck out a method, that he imagined could not fail of success. 
He therefore cultivated an intimacy with the gentleman, in which, upon all occasions, he affected to boast of his own success in life, and to attribute it to his having always a command of money, to take the advantage of any bargain that might offer. 
As this turn of conversation seemed to flow only from the fulness of his heart, and to be free from all design, it had the effect he proposed, and raised a desire in his friend to follow a method which had been so successful with him. He therefore, one day, communicated to him a resolution, which he had formed, of selling his estate, and applying the money to business; and desired 
[Page 222]
his friend's assistance to execute his design. After an appearance of surprize, the scrivener testified his pleasure and approbation of his prudence, by the readiness with which he undertook to serve him. 
The ease with which the first part of his scheme had succeeded, made him form further hopes, and think of getting the estate he desired, even at a cheaper rate than purchasing it. 
After some time spent, as he said, in fruitless enquiries, for a purchaser, he most artfully drew his friend, to desire that he would buy it himself: at first he seemed to hesitate, but then, as it were yielding to the impulse of his friendship, he concluded a bargain for it, on terms evidently advantagious to the seller. 
All things being agreed upon, the parties met to conclude the affair, when the writings being read over, and the money lying on the table, while the scrivener told it, the gentleman executed the deeds of conveyance, and receipt, before proper witnesses, who withdrew as soon as they had signed them. 
In the mean time, the scrivener continued to tell the money, till a servant entered hastily with a letter, as from a lord, who was one of his best clients, and desired 
[Page 223]
to see him that moment. The difficulty this threw him into was soon solved, by his friend's compliance to defer his business for a few hours, as the lord's urgency would not admit the least delay. Accordingly, he put up both the deeds and money, in all the apparent confusion of hurry, and went away to his lordship. 
Next morning the gentleman called to receive the price of his estate, but his friend was not at home, nor to be spoken with in the afternoon, for his turn was now served, and he neither desired, nor perhaps thought it safe, to keep up any farther acquaintance with him. 
As such things might happen to a man in business, the gentleman took no notice of them, but quietly swallowed the same excuses for some days successively. At length his patience began to be exhausted, and his fears alarmed at a behaviour so strange, and contrary to that height of intimacy that had been between them, even were there no business in the case In this perplexity he went one morning, resolved not to quit the house till he should see him; and when a message to that purpose was, after long attendance, complied with, upon a warm expostulation, he received for answer, from his friend, that 
[Page 224]
'he had been of late too much engaged in affairs of consequence, to attend compliments, and knew not any business he could have with him.' 
'Not know my business, Sir (replied the gentleman in astonishment) I come, Sir, for my money, and shall hereafter never trouble you more with business; or compliment.' -'Your money, Sir! I do not understand you: pray, Sir, what money do you mean?' -'What money? the purchase money of my estate, Sir; which you were to have paid me above a week ago, when I signed the deeds of sale.' - Poor gentleman; it is so! as I was informed, and always feared. He has lost his reason; and I should not seem much better, to trust myself longer with a man in his condition.' - 'Take care, Sir; this is too tender a point to be trifled with: you almost make me mad!' -'Aye; there it is: he is mad, poor man; and is even sensible of it himself!' - 'Death, Sir; do not dare to dally with me a moment longer! answer me directly! pay me my money; and do not really provoke me to a madness, that may be fatal to us both.' -Sir, your madness, or reason, is nothing to me: however, I will answer you directly, that I owe you no money, and none will I pay you. As for the purchase 
[Page 225]
money of your estate, your parting with which I see has turned your brain, when you come to yourself, you will recollect, that I paid it to you, when you executed the deeds of sale; or if you do not remember it, your own receipt, properly witnessed, will prove it, for me, and I desire no more: and therefore, Sir, let me have no further trouble with you, if you do not chuse to take up your lodgings in Moorfields.' 
'This is too much; just heaven! this is too much; too much for human patience to endure! or wait the law's delay for remedy! I will avenge myself, assert the cause of justice; and rid the groaning world of such a monster!' (exclaimed the unhappy gentleman) now really irritated into the extremity of that phrenzy, which the other only wanted to impose upon him, and drawing his sword, before the wretch could call for help, or take any method of defence, he plunged it through his body. 
His shrieks soon alarmed his servants, who rushing in, found him weltering in his blood, and the madman smiling, in the absence of frantick extasy over him, and incapable of attention to any other circumstance, though some of them dragged him before a magistrate, while the rest were busied in procuring relief for their master. 

[Page 226]
The madman was committed to prison, to wait the event of the wound he had given, which heaven, to let the measure of the scrivener's iniquity be full, had directed to a part where it was not mortal. 
In a word, he recovered, though not to a sense of justice or humanity, but persisting in his iniquity, which now was sharpened by a spirit of revenge, for what he had endured, the first effort of his health, was to have the unhappy sufferer confined in Bedlam, where he still languishes under all the horrors that attend a total loss of reason, without relief, or even compassion from his base undoer; who, this very morning, as he was stepping into his chariot, to come to this charity-feast, spurned from him with his foot, and refused the smallest alms to the wretched wife of the ruined madman, who begs in the common streets, and was driven by misery and despair, to throw herself even at his feet, to implore relief. 
I see your abhorrence rise at such a monster, but how will wonder even heighten it, when I tell you, that this oppressor has neither child, nor kinsman, to inherit his wealth; for he was himself a foundling, and reared at the publick expence, without the knowledge or tenderness of a parent, to soften his rugged soul, nor would the 
[Page 227]
selfishness of his heart ever permit him to marry, for fear of the expence of a family; but he is this moment meditating on some ostentatious scheme of charity, to the foundation of which, he designs to dedicate the wealth which he has amassed by such villanies. 
CHAP. XIII. 

Continued: The history of a general almoner. His method of making charity begin at home. He converts a noted bawd, but disappoints his designs, by too great confidence in his own skill. The character of a clergyman. 
Move your eye to the left, and view that demure-looking picture of devotion, who sits there in silence, lifting up his eyes to heaven, and sighing in spirit, at the festivity and sensual conversation round him. 
Who, that can see no deeper than outward appearances, would not think that man sincere in his professions of religion and virtue? whereas, in truth, he is the most abandoned contemner of both; and deepens the dye of his blackest crimes by the most 
[Page 228]
hardened hypocrisy, secretly living on the practice of those very vices, of which he professes the greatest abhorrence. 
With all that consequence, which he assumes, in the direction of this charity, on the merit of the largeness of his subscription to it, in reality, he is but the dispenser of other people's benefactions, into whose good opinion he so insinuates himself, by his pretended piety, that they intrust their charity to his disposal, who always pays himself for his trouble, by subducting largely, from the sums confided to him. For as real charity vaunteth not itself, they never divulge the secret, compleatly imposed on, by his address, that never lets one half of his contributors know, of the other; by which management, as the sums he gives, are always made public, for example and imitation, each thinks that he adds most liberally to his own donationBut this is not the only method by which he turns his piety to advantage. The access which the reputation of it gains him, into almost every family, opens him an opportunity of carrying on the deepest intrigues, and becoming a pandar, for vices both natural and unnatural, which the interest of the parties concerned makes them still keep scoreAs for the former, the mystery of 
[Page 229]
that trade has been in part explained already; and the latter is too horrible for explanation. I shall therefore pass over those scenes, and conclude my account of this extraordinary personage, with one instance of his address, in finding out and managing the weak side of superstition and vice. 
In the course of his love negotiations, he had made an acquaintance with a woman who kept a publick bagnio, or house of prostitution, which acquaintance mutual interest cemented into an intimacy. In this most infamous trade had this woman amassed considerable wealth, the disposal of which (after her death) took up much of her thoughts, in those moments, when the consequences of her debauched life forced her to think of dying. 
As the secrets of their trade had removed every reserve from between them, she often used to consult him on this head; when he always comforted her with dissertations upon religion and virtue, stripping them of the vain incumbrances of priestcraft, and bringing them back to their genuine principles of benevolence and charity. 
Frequent inculcation of this doctrine had the effect he designed; the matron was pleased with the thought of having all the benefit of religion, without the trouble of 
[Page 230]
the practice, and immediately began to exercise her devotion in donations to publick charities, which as it was not quite so much in character for her to offer in person, while she continued her profession, and she saw no necessity, nor felt inclination to quit that, she always confided to the distribution of her spiritual guide. 
Nor did his success stop here; he improved his influence on her superstition, so far, that he prevailed on her to compound with heaven for the vices of her life, by bequeathing the earnings of them to its use, after her death. 
For this purpose he himself drew her will, which pious application of her fortune set her conscience at ease; and she continued her usual business to the hour of her death, which happened three years after, with such care and industry, that some instance of negligence, in one of her servant's administring to the pleasure of her guests, gave her such uneasiness, in her last moments, that with her dying breath she lamented the ruin her house must come to, after she should quit the care of it, for the joys of heaven. 
You must not think, that his design extended no farther, than to prevail on her to make such a will; he had drawn it himself, 
[Page 231]
as I have told you, and took care to word it in such a manner, as he thought should give him, under the appearance of her executor and trustee, as she designed him, a real property in her wealth; as it was immediately to come into his hands, on her death, and there was no time appointed for the fulfilling her pious intentions. 
But here his sagacity disappointed itself: for neglecting to take proper advice, or afraid of making any person privy to his designs, he had committed such material errors in the form of the will, as gave room to learned counsel to set it aside, in favour of the heir at law, her nephew, who, from cleaning shoes under a gateway, was enriched with at least a third part of his aunt's fortune, which remained to him, after the costs of the suit that had been carried on for him, in form pauperis, while her executor had the vexation of disappointment aggravated by a decree to pay all the costs This was a severe stroke: but it did not break his spirit, though it obliged him to return to his former occupation of an almoner, which you see he pursues with that attention, which always ensures success. 
I see you sink under the pain of finding the best actions debased, by springing from such motives: but be careful to avoid an 
[Page 232]
errour, fatally too prevalent, of concluding from the abuse, against the use of any thing that may, in its end, be conducive to good. 
These instances I have given; and I could add many more; not to depreciate the custom of giving to public charities, which is the noblest use of wealth; but to caution you against the dangerous errour of thinking, that such giving alone, without reformation of life, and the active practice of the other virtues, can be acceptable in the sight of him to whom it is offered, or efficacious to procure his favour; and to shew the absurd impiety of perishing in vice, with a vain hope of bribing heaven with the wages of hell. 
But to relieve your pain, behold that venerable person who sits opposite to him; the serenity of whose looks shews the happiness of his mind. Read his heart, and you will not find one discontent, or sorrow there, but what humanity imprints for the distresses of his fellow-creatures, which his beneficence, his real charity, is for ever finding methods to relieve, not only by pecuniary benefactions, though to these is devoted the far greater part of his ample fortune, but also by his advice, instruction, and good offices, the judicious application and 
[Page 233]
sincerity of which, makes them very rarely fail of successHe is a real supporter of charity, in its most extensive sense: his example giving a sanction, a seal of virtue, to every thing he appears in, which puts wicked wit out of countenance, and stops the tongue of calumny; and is (even were it alone) sufficient to counterbalance all the instances which could be brought against it. His long life, which has been extended by heaven, as a blessing to mankind, has been a constant illustration of the religion he teaches; not one instance of his actions ever contradicting his profession, as near as human weakness can act up to divine perfection. 
Such is this clergyman! such should all clergymen be, to preserve the purity, the dignity of a function, whose rules are drawn from perfection, and calculated to prepare the human for a participation of the divine nature, to accomplish which greatest end, all profession, not enforced by practice, must be ineffectual. 
To mention any one instance of his good works, would be doing injustice to the rest, and contradicting the desire of his heart, which, next to doing good, is to conceal what he does, his actions being so far from ostentation, that to heaven only, and the 
[Page 234]
parties themselves, are they revealed, nor to these even is the hand that reaches them the blessing always known. 
CHAP. XIV. 

The representation concluded with an eminent man-midwife. His motives for taking up that profession, with some unfortunate anecdotes of his practice. 
I shall now present you with a character, the folly of which is a shade to its virtues, and shews them through a medium of ridicule and contempt, more humbling to human vanity, than the most atrocious vice. 
Observe that skeleton, that figure of famine, who even after a feast, looks as if he had fasted for a month, and was just ready to perish for want. That is another of the principal promoters, and indeed supporters of publick charity, from the best of motives: his benefactions always flowing from the benevolence of his heart, though too often qualified in the manner, by circumstances that throw both the gift and giver into ridicule. 

[Page 235]
For such is the vehemence of his temper, that not satisfied with providing for the wants of the poor, he will see that the supplies which he bestows, are applied in the manner he directs, which introduces him too familiarly, into the domestick distresses of the unhappy, many of whom would rather perish for want, than make the circumstances of their wants known: nor is his fortune only devoted to those uses, his very personal service is always ready, particularly in some cases, where, unfortunately, a motive of a very different nature from his real one, is too liable to be mistaken for it, by the malignant temper of the times. 
There is no situation of human distress, that calls so strongly for compassion and relief, as child-birth. How severe then must the case of those unhappy creatures be, who are left to struggle through such pangs, unassisted, unprovided with any of the comforts, so necessary to support nature in such a conflict. 
A sense of this struck his humane heart! He felt the distress, and liberally supplied the relief. Well had he stopped here! But fearing that such relief should be misapplied, or insufficient, he would attend himself, to see that nothing was wanted; and at length, 
[Page 236]
to make his assistance compleat, learned the obstetrick art, and now necessarily has more business in it, as he pays for being employed, by the benefactions he bestows, than any one member of the profession. 
Laudable as this care, and the motive of it, are, it would have been much better, had not the sanguineness of his temper hurried him so far! Had he been content to supply their wants, and let others, whose profession it more immediately is, administer relief. For now, what a field does it open for ill-natured ridicule, to see a man of his consequence, descend to offices, in the ordinary acceptation of the world, so far beneath him? How easy is it to say! how easy to be believed, that idle curiosity, or some grosser motive, prompts to such uncommon assiduity? 
Nor is the evil of this indiscretion confined to him alone; it reflects a kind of ridicule upon the very virtue it would serve; and makes less sanguine minds refrain from the good, for fear they should also share in the reproachFor it is not sufficient for a man to have the testimony of his own conscience for the rectitude of his instructions; there is also a debt of appearance due to the publick, to avoid offence, and inculcate virtue by example. 

[Page 237]
One instance will illustrate this, and shew the inconveniences of his inconsiderate zeal. 
A poor woman applied to him for relief, some time before the moment. According to his custom, he supplied her necessities, and took a direction where to call and see her. The woman, either mistaken herself, or tempted by distress to deceive him, told him a wrong time, which made him come too soon; and as he always made her some charitable present whenever he came, she still found some complaints to induce him to repeat his visits. 
At length, the frequency of his coming took the notice of the alley in which she lived, who could not conceive any honest business that a gentleman of his fine appearance could have with such a poor woman, in so obscure a place; and as such remarks are always improved, some friend hinted to the woman's husband, a labouring man, who was out at his work all day, and therefore could not be witness of his disgrace, that his wife had many improper visitors come to her, and must certainly have taken to bad courses, to encourage such doings. 
The cuckold in imagination, went directly home, in the greatest rage, at his 
[Page 238]
dishonour, but the name of the visitor, and an assurance that there came no other, soon pacified him, especially as a ready thought struck him, that he might turn the good man's humanity to an advantage, of a nature very different from what he designed; for the fellow was well supplied with what is called mother-wit, which want had sharpened, and freed from every restraint of honesty. He therefore sullenly told his wife, that it might be so as she said, but he would have a better proof than her word for it, and she must let him see her visitor the next time he came, and as she valued her life, assent to every thing which he, her husband, should do or say. 
The readiness of her consent encouraged him to open his design to her, which her nuptial obedience, and hopes of gain, made her not only give into, but she also improved the scheme to a certainty of success. 
The husband accordingly having prepared some of his associates, placed them properly, the next time the gentleman went to visit his wife, who immediately, upon his coming into the room, began to cry out, and implore his assistance. 
Though the business came a little inconveniently upon him, as he was full dressed, he would not desert her in her distress, but 
[Page 239]
directly set about giving her the necessary assistance, in the hurry of which, some unlucky stoop burst the string that tied his breeches behind, and down they fell about his heels. 
Though this disaster disconcerted him a good deal, the cries of his patient would not give him time to adjust himself, but he was proceeding in his business, with the most anxious assiduity, when in rushed the husband, with his gang, and rewarded his care with a stroke, that felled him, fettered as he was in his breeches, to the ground. 
The scene was now changed! the woman, no longer in labour, cried only for revenge, on the base man who had attempted her virtue, as the witnesses present attested, they had heard her before, and now caught him in the very fact; which the posture he was in, and above all, the circumstances of his breeches, too strongly confirmed, to the croud whom the noise had drawn together. 
Terrified almost to death, at the threats of the enraged husband, who could hardly be held from taking personal vengeance that very moment, and sensible of the consequence, should publick fame catch hold of such a tale, the poor criminal threw himself on his knees, and, convinced that all 
[Page 240]
vindication of his innocence would be in vain, besought only a composition for his offence. 
This was just what the parties wanted; but still to encrease his terrors, and enhaunce the price of his escape, such difficulties were raised, as made him glad to yield to any terms they could impose; and accordingly, he not only purged himself of having done any actual dishonour to her husband, for the intention they would not admit him to controvert, but also made satisfaction to his resentment for the attempt, with 100 l. for which, as he had not such a sum immediately about him, he gave a draught on his banker, and waited in duresse, till the arrival of it released him. 
This misfortune made him more cautious for some time; but he begins to forget it now, and goes on with his business as before. One thing indeed he takes sufficient care about, and that is, that the waste of his breeches is properly secured: for so strong is the impression, which that accident made upon him, that he never walks a dozen steps without pulling them up. 
You see most of them begin to nod, I shall therefore draw the curtain here, and leave them to their nap, with this observation, that a few such examples, as the last 
[Page 235]
but one, and many of the kind there are, particularly eminent in this exalted virtue of charity, in both the sexes, are sufficient to take off the prejudice, which the others must excite, and to preserve the proper respect, to the principles they propose to imitation. 
CHAP. XV. 

Some account of the officers of the charity. Their care of themselves. They fall out about the division of the spoil. A terrible uproar is appeased by a demand of general concern. The concise manner of passing publick accounts. Chrysal changes his service. 
When I had taken a sufficient view of the governors, I had leisure to turn my observations to the servants of the society, whose behaviour raised an indignation too strong to be expressed by words. 
If the governors feasted, they paid for their feasting; but the servants feasted no less, and were paid for it! Nor was this enormity confined to this day: their whole time was one continued scene of it, and 
[Page 230]
much the greater part of the contribution of the public was prostituted to this abominable abuse: while the poor, for whose relief they were given, too often languished in want of the meanest necessaries, the fund being insufficient for their wants, and the luxury and wages of their servants. 
I was diverted from these reflections, by an uproar, in one of the private apartments of the house, where some of the superiour servants, had got together over a bottle of wine, to settle their respective dividends of the subscriptions of the day. I call them servants, for that is the proper appellation of all who serve for hire. As I was yet undisposed of to any particular person, I had it in my power, as I have told you before, to range through the whole territories of the society, to which I belonged, and therefore flew to see, what might be the cause of this riot, in so improper a place, where I was witness to such a scene, as almost transcends belief. 
At the upper end of the table sat the treasurer (for it would be a reproach to the poorest society, to have fewer officers than the state) with his accounts before him. After a bumper to the success of the charity, 'Mr. steward (said he) our subscriptions have been so good this year, that I think 
[Page 227]
we may venture to enlarge our sallaries, a little; for last year they were really scarce worth a gentleman's acceptance.' 
'That is true (replied the steward) and I believe we may enlarge the house allowance too, for upon the present establishment, it is hardly enough for the days we meet here, and will not afford any thing to carry home, to entertain a friend with, as a gentleman would desire:-it is but swelling some of the sick articles, which at present are scarce above the consumption. When I was overseer of the parish, we managed things better. We then lived like gentlemen: nay, I remember when I was church-warden, that we spent an whole summer, jaunting about the country, in pursuit of a gentleman, who had a child sworn to him; for fifty shillings, which he had beed ordered to pay, till the bill of our expences came to 15 l. and yet no-body could say against it. So that it is our own fault, if we do not live well.' 
'Right (joined the apothecary) nor was the appointment for medicines any way sufficient. Had half what the physicians prescribed, been given, there would have been nothing to be got by the contract.' - How, Mr. apothecary (returned the cook, 
[Page 222]
with a sneer) nothing to be got! pray, was not all you got clear gain? I am sure, from the benefit received by the patients, there did not appear to have been any thing above brickdust, or powder of rotten post, in any of the stuffs they took!' 
'Pray S--- S--- Sir (stuttered the apothecary, in a rage) wh--- wh--- what's that you say? who m--- m--- made you a judge of medicines?' -'Not you, I thank God, Sir (said the cook) as my health shews. But I have good reason for what I say, for though I put double the quantity of meat in my broth, I could not prevent the people's dying, nor make the few, who recovered, able to go out, in twice the usual time.' -'S--- S--- Sir, 'tis all: a d--- d--- damn'd lie. Their d-- d-- dying was occasioned by the p--- p--- poorness of the b--- b--- broth, and the badness of their p--- p--- p--- provisions, and not by the w--- w--- want of medicines; and I'll p--- p--- prove it, Sir: and how you sup---p---p---ported your family on the m--- m--- meat that should have been d--- d--- dress'd for the sick!' -'You'll prove it, Sir! Take care that you Gentlemen take notice of what he says! This is striking at my character; and must affect my bread.' 

[Page 223]
'That is true, Mr. cook (said the secretary, who had been an attorney's clerk) and whatever strikes at a man's character, so as to affect his bread, is actionable.' - 'B--- b--- but Sir, he attacked my cha--- cha--- cha--- character first, and I'll b--- b--- b--- bring my action too.' -'So you may, Sir (replied the lawyer) the action will lie on both sides.'- 
The dispute had hitherto been kept up, with such heat, that the company could not interpose a word to pacify them, but the mention of the law made it every one's concern in a moment'Silence, Gentlemen (said the treasurer, raising slowly his august bulk, and striking his hand upon the table) Silence, I say, and let me hear no more of this brawling. Mr. Cook! Mr. apothecary! what do you both mean? to discover the secrets of our society, and to blow us all up at once? You both heard me say, that every thing which was wrong should be adjusted! could you not wait for that, without falling into this indecent, this unprofitable wrangle? As for you, Mr. secretary, the leven of your profession will break out; it is sufficient to infect the whole mass! Is this your promise, your oath? To follow your business, and do as you are ordered quietly 
[Page 226]
and implicitly, without meddling any farther, or perplexing us with the tricks of your former trade? But it was in vain to expect it. A lawyer can as well live without food, as without fomenting quarrels, and setting his neighbours together by the ears: bring an action indeed! and so betray our mystery, to the impertinent remarks of counsellors, and the scoffs of templers and attorney's clerks. Let me hear one word more of the kind, and this moment I declare off all connection, and leave every man to shift for himself. Our general oath of secrecy, attested under our hands, secures me from information, as it would invalidate the testimony of us all.' 
With these words, he turned about, to leave the room, when the steward, catching him by the breast, pulled him into his chair, and holding him down, by main force, addressed him thus:-'Good God, Sir: what do you mean! to take notice of the warmth of madmen, who know not what they say: you, Mr. Treasurer, have moved in an higher sphere of life, and ought to be above such things. You were not raised from cleaning the shoes of a petti-fogging attorney, in whose drudgery you lost your ears!-from being scullion in 
[Page 231]
a nobleman's kitchen, or servant to a mountebank, to dispence his packets to the mob; you were not raised, I say, from any of these stations to the rank of a gentleman, by this office, and should be above taking offence at the low-liv'd behaviour of such creatures, who know no better.' -'Nor w--- w--- w--- was I a full-handed ten-times b--- b--- b--- bankrupt (interrupted the apothecary, as he would have done sooner, had rage left him power of utterance) that b--- b--- b---being unable to get credit any l--- l--- l--- longer, came from cheating the p-- p-- p-- public, to cheating the p-- p-- p- poor! nor a c--- c--- c--- cast-off, worn-out p--- p--- p---pimping footman, whose dirty services w--- w--- w--- were rewarded with this place.' 
This made the madness general, and they were just going to proceed to blows, when the porter entered hastily, and told them the committee were adjourned to their chamber, and had sent for their accounts, to sit upon them directly. 
This brought them all to their senses, and made them friends a moment. 'Gentlemen (said the treasurer) we have all been too hot, all to blame; but let there 
[Page 234]
be no more of it! let us agree among ourselves, and we may defy the world.' 
Upon this, a general shake of the hand put an end to the whole contest, and they proceeded to business, as if no such thing had ever happened, unanimous in their endeavours to cheat the publick, and fatten on the spoils of the poor. 
By that time the committee had smoaked a pipe, and drank their coffee, the accounts were laid before them, over which they nodded a few moments, and then passed them, without exception. The next thing was to pay the salaries of the officers, in which distribution, it fell to my lot to be given to the chaplain. 

End of the First Volume.

Vol. 2 
Title Page 
CHRYSAL; OR THE Adventures of a Guinea. Wherein are exhibited Views of several striking Scenes, WITH Curious and interesting Anecdotes of the most Noted Persons in every Rank of Life, whose Hands it passed through IN America, England, Holland, Germany, and Portugal. 



-""To shew Vice its own Image, Virtue her own Likeness, 
""His Form and Pressure."- 
Shakespear.



Qui capit, ille facit.
By an ADEPT. VOL. II.
LONDON: Printed for T. Becket, at Tully's Head, near Surry Street, in the Strand. MDCCLX. 


[Page -]

CONTENTS. 

BOOK the First.
CHAP. I.

Some remarks on language. Character of Chrysal's new master. Chrysal changes his service for that of his wife, whom he attends on a visit to a superior lady. Polite reception. 
Page 1
CHAP. II.

A genteel evening. A dream, and a bett, and a family supper. Conjugal tenderness. The Bishop's dejection at the death of the Doctor, and danger of the Archbishop, is diverted by another dream. 
10
CHAP. III.

A dissertation on dreaming. The dream pursued to the astonishment, and almost conversion 
[Page -]
of the Bishop's Lady. Her veracity in recounting some circumstances relating to it. She and his Lordship perswade each other to dream that it is true. 
20
CHAP. IV.

History of the dreamer. She loses her wager, which she pays with pleasure. His Lordship waits upon her Grace. His knowledge of the world promotes a noble instance of charity. Chrysal enters into the service of her Grace. 
30
CHAP. V.

The Bishop obtains the honour of a private audience. His extensive charity. He makes her Grace his almoner, to relieve his fellow protestants in Germany. He is strangely affected at the news of the archbishop's recovery. Her Grace's character. 
37
CHAP. VI.

An odd visitor to a lady. The mystery of stock-jobbing. Charity begins at home. Her Grace's kind intentions for honest Aminadab. 
[Page -]
Another visitor. The worth of honour. The best salve for a broken character. 
42
CHAP. VII.

The Colonel puts the old soldier upon her Grace. Her rage and resentment fall upon her agent. Her judicious application of the Bishop's charity, with her tender concern for her friends abroad. 
53
CHAP. VIII.

Chrysal changes his service, for that of an usual attendant upon the great. The history of the unfortunate glyster-pipe-maker, who was like to be hanged for dirtying his fingers. By a natural progression, Chrysal comes to an horse-race, where he learns from a noble brother of the snaffle, some part of the mysterious science of the turf, with other common occurrences. 
60
CHAP. IX.

Chrysal's master pays his court to a great person, who seems not much to relish his humour, and expresses some unfashionable sentiments concerning polite pleasures. In 
[Page -]
the course of a regular circulation, Chrysal comes into the possession of a minister of state, who refuses a friendly offer for very odd reasons. His strange notion of some affairs. 
71
CHAP. X.

Chrysal's sentiments of his master's master, who gives a remarkable reason, for his approbation of his minister's measures and manner of doing business. The minister's charge to a general, on appointing him to a command. Chrysal enters into the service of the general. Conflict between maternal tenderness and glory, in which the latter is triumphant. Strange advice from a mother to a son. 
79
CHAP. XI.

Another scene of tenderness. Love and honour in the old-fashioned, romantick style. Chrysal quits the service of the general, and after some few common changes, enters into that of honest Aminadab. Conclusion of Aminadab's agency for her Grace. 
88
CHAP. XII.

They arrive at the Hague. Political conversation between a Dutchman and a 
[Page -]
Jew. They differ in opinion. Aminadab leaves his friend Van Hogan in great distress. 
97
CHAP. XIII.

Aminadab bids adieu to her Grace, and sails with his son for Africa. Chrysal remains with a Dutch banker. The principles and conscience of a good Dutchman. Chrysal is sent into Germany. His opinion of the Dutch. 
109
CHAP. XIV.

Chrysal's remarks on military glory in his journey. Two strange passengers taken into the boat. National prejudice and pride break out in persons not likely to be suspected for such passions. 
116
CHAP. XV.

The history of the Bulgarian soldier. Chrysal is carried to his destined master. 
126
CHAP. XVI.

How Chrysal found his master employed. The grandeur and happiness of absolute power. His cares for the augmentation, and support of his revenues. His rage at the insolence of liberty, punctuality to his engagements, and resolutions to maintain the consequence of his rank. 
135

[Page -]

CHAP. XVII.

More cares of sovereignty, and consequences of grandeur. Chrysal is sent to market, where he is given to a Jew for bacon. 

144
CHAP. XVIII.


Comparison between two dealers in flesh. The celebration of the Passover in the traditional way, and the method of procuring (human) lambs explained. 

149


BOOK the Second.
CHAP. I.

The rites are interrupted, and the victims changed. This cleared up without a miracle. The few survivors of the first fury brought to publick justice. 
155
CHAP. II.

A breach of neutrality properly resented brings Chrysal into a service which he had long been ambitious of. How he found his new master employed. The king of Bulgaria's reception of the humbled magistrates. His appropriation of money to his own use. His reflections on the sight of Chrysal. 
162
CHAP. III.

The king takes a view of his camp in disguise. The exalted pleasure he received in the various 
[Page -]
occurrences of his walk. He gains a great victory. His conduct in, and after the battle. 
169
CHAP. IV.

The happy fruits of victory. Chrysal finds new reason to admire his master. A stranger throws himself at his feet to implore justice. The story of the stranger. 
176
CHAP. V.

The king sends for the general, and orders the stranger to be confined, till his arrival. Continuation of the story of the stranger. A new trial of the king's fortitude and activity of soul. 
184
CHAP. VI.

Conclusion of the story of the stranger. His wife arrives and acquits the general. The king's speech to him, and generosity to the strangers. Chrysal changes his service, and goes with them. Some general remarks on the character of the king of Bulgaria, and the probable consequences of the war. 
190
CHAP. VII.

Chrysal arrives in Vienna, where he meets an old acquaintance. The history of 
[Page -]
his master's brother. His mission, labours, and success in England. He is sent to Peru. He disapproves of the precipitancy of the measures carried on there, and returns to Europe to prepare matters better. 
200
CHAP. VIII.

Continuation of the Jesuit's discourse. He shews the promising situation of his affairs at present. The concise method by which Spain and Portugal, are to be brought into the war with England. He proposes to his brother to join in the general, that he may accomplish his particular, design. 
207
CHAP. IX.

The Jesuit proceeds to shew the rise of the war in Germany, and explains the motives of the several parties engaged in it, as also of the neutrality observed by some particular states. 
212
CHAP. X.

Conclusion of the Jesuit's discourse. His systems of morality and religion. His brother yields to his arguments, with some particular exceptions. Chrysal changes his service. 
219

[Page -]

CHAP. XI.

Chrysal arrives at Lisbon, where he comes into the possession of a former acquaintance. His master makes the great attempt without success. Several of the nobility are sacrificed to other motives, on a pretence of being guilty of this fact. Chrysal's master is at length taken up. Chrysal changes his service. 

224
CHAP. XII.


Chrysal meets another acquaintance at his new master's. Conclusion of the history of honest Aminadab. Adventures of his son. He enters into business at Lisbon, in which Chrysal suffers a great misfortune. His ingratitude to his uncle justly rewarded. Chrysal enters into a new service. 

233
CHAP. XIII.


An uncommon criminal appears at the tribunal of the holy office. A love scene in a strange place. The history of Pheron and Ilissa. 

243
CHAP. XIV.


The love-adventure continued. The inquisitor visits Pheron, and obtains his consent. 
[Page -]
He employs an English sailor, whom he sets at liberty, to assist him in his designs. 

254
CHAP. XV.


The sailor goes to London, buys a ship, and returns to Lisbon, where he takes his passengers on board. His behaviour on meeting a French ship. He lands his passengers at Alexandria, returns home and marries. Chrysal quits his service. 

262
CHAP. XVI.


Chrysal arrives in London, where he comes into the possession of a pawn-broker, by whom he is given to the author. A most unhappy instance of human infirmity. The conclusion. 

271




[Page 1]

CHRYSAL: OR THE ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 
BOOK the First. 
CHAP. I. 

Some remarks on language. Character of Chrysal's new master. Chrysal changes his service for that of his wife, whom he attends on a visit to a superior lady. Polite reception. 
I Have often been apprehensive, that the manner in which I express myself, may lead you into some mistakes of my meaning, the signification of words, in the language of men, being so unsettled, that it is scarce possible to convey a 
[Page 2]
determinate sense, without such a periphrasis, as would take up too much time, in so complicated scenes, as those I describe; for where different, or perhaps contrary meanings are signified by the same word, how easy is it for a mind, prone to error, to take the wrong one. 
For instance, the character of a good man may be thought to be as safe from misapprehension, from the immutability of the virtues, which constitute it, as any that can be attributed either by, or to human frailty, and yet how variously, how contradictorily is it applied. 
On the Royal Exchange he is a good man, who is worth 10,000l. and pays his bills punctually, by whatever private and public frauds and injustice he has amassed that sum, and maintains his credit. At the politer end of the world, goodness assumes another appearance, and is attributed to him, who entertains his company well, pays his play-debts, and supports his honour with his sword, though he is guilty of the basest breaches of every civil and moral virtue, and lives in professed violation of all laws, human and divine: while, in the strictness of truth, and propriety of expression, no greater abuse of words can be conceived, than that of prostituting this 
[Page 3]
character on either, except it were in compliance with the modern, modish way of speaking by contraries. 
I do not give this as the only instance! they are innumerable, and occur in every moment's conversation. The horse, that wins the match, goes damn'd fast; as the one that loses, goes damn'd slow. The weather in summer is hell-fire hot, in winter hell-fire cold. 
Now what sense can the very Devil himself, to whom you refer all difficulties, make of such contradictions. Though, indeed, these particular phrases give him pleasure, as they shew the inclination which men have to his empire, by making the very terrors of it familiar to their minds in their common conversation. 
But I am not at leisure to give rules for avoiding this confusion, the most extensive cause of human error. I shall only give you some cautions to prevent your falling into it, in respect to what I say to you. 
You are to observe then, that whenever I speak in the person of another, I always would be understood in the sense which that person would be understood in at that time, without any farther regard to moral, or physical truth, or propriety of speech. But when I speak my own sentiments, (which, 
[Page 4]
indeed, I very rarely do) I shall always deliver them with perspicuity and precision, as far as the jargon I am obliged to use will allow, and would have my words taken in the sense, usually given to them, in the particular subject, or science, I may be then speaking of; as the barrenness of language has not been able to afford distinct terms to them all; but is forced to wrest known ones to different, and often unknown meanings; a proof of the injustice of the general complaint against the verbosity of the moderns; whereas, if many (distinct) words are meant, their fault is directly the reverse; and no other, in truth, than a want of words, which causes a repetition of the same few, often without any new, or perhaps any meaning at allWhenever I comply with the ludicrous taste that prevails at present, and couch a double meaning, in a plain word, my manner of speaking will explain my sense to you, just as well as the use of different characters does in print. 
And here, by the way, I cannot avoid taking notice of the preposterous length into which this practice, in itself, not only allowable, but useful, has been carried. I mean the use of a different character to particular words, which was first introduced to supply the place of the emphasis of the 
[Page 5]
voice, in the pronunciation of those words, and direct the mind in the reading of them, than which nothing can be a greater assistance to the understanding. 
But now, the indiscriminate use, or indeed rather injudicious abuse of this practice not only defeats the original design of it, in a great measure, but also greatly aggravates the confusion I have been speaking of; every printer now assuming the liberty of giving any word, phrase, or sentiment, which he does not understand himself, or thinks the reader may not understand, just as he does, in such a difference of character from the context: a trick that may raise, and impose upon ignorant curiosity, in searching for, and applying such hidden meanings, but which really does only disfigure the appearance, and perplex the sense, when it is used in that manner. I have thought it proper to say this, to prevent the loss of my labour, in the mistake or perversion of my words. 
My new master was a person of some learning, and what was better, of thorough knowledge of the world: but wanting friends and interest, to advance him to those dignities which he thought due to his merit, he had sollicited this place, in discharge of the duties of which he was indefatigably diligent, 
[Page 6]
not merely for the paultry consideration of a poor salary, (for as he was not in the secret, he had no share of the spoils, though his circumstances and knowledge of the value of money could not let him refuse it) but to place his abilities in a more conspicuous light, where they might take the notice of his superiors. 
As soon as he had received his stipend, he went home, where he found his wife dress'd in all her best cloaths, and expecting him with the utmost impatience! 'My dear (said she) how could you stay abroad so late? I have been waiting for you above these two hours, and was just going without seeing you.' 'So late, my dear! it is scarely six o'clock! But where are you going in such haste?' ---'To the Bishop's! The Rector of --- died of an apoplectick fit, as he was taking his nap after dinner this evening, and you know, my intimacy with the Bishop's lady entitles me to ask any thing from her.' - 'But, child, this is not in her power to give, and even if it was, it is too much for a common acquaintance to expect!' 'This diffidence has been your ruin! You are always afraid of asking, as if there was ruin in being refused; but that is not my case! Ask and you shall have, is my text! Now-a-days, nothing is got without it.' 
[Page 7]
-'Yes, child, but too frequent or improper asking brings contempt.' -'The manner, the manner of asking is the thing! And you cannot think I want to be taught that now, after having lived so long among the Great? Often have I known a request properly made gain a man a place, for which he was never dream'd of! As to the greatness of this living, never mind that! the greater it is, the greater will be your obligation to the person who gets it for you! What money have you got about you? we shall make a party perhaps. And let me have the 500l. note! I may have occasion for that too, to make a bett.' 
'There, my dear, is the money I received to-day! I'll step up for the note: but pray, my dearest, take care what you do! It is our all! And be sure you are not tempted to any thing like simmony! It is a great crime, and makes a man incapable of ever rising, if it is detected.' -'And the fool, that is detected, deserved never to rise! You may call a thing by what nonsensical name you please; but if knowledge of the world were to prevent people's rising in it; I do not know who would be uppermost now-a days! Bring me the note, and leave the rest to me. You shall know nothing of what I intend 
[Page 8]
till it is done, and then the fault, if any, will be all mine! -Here, Jane, settle the surbelows of my scarfe, and, John, call a chair to the door directly.' 'Well, my dear, here is the note: I leave all to you! I do not desire to know what you intend: But remember, my dear, this note is our all!' 'Never fear! The chair is come, and I must lose no time! You will divert yourself with your children, or books, I suppose; or go to the coffee-house. Perhaps I may not return till 'tis late.'- 'I wish you success, my dear, and pray be cautious.' 
With these words the Doctor retired, but to which of the amusements his wife mentioned I cannot say, for he had given me to her, who carried me away with her to the Bishop's. 
When she came there, the footman answered, that it was not his lady's night, and she was not at home: but my mistress had lived too long among the Great, to take his words in their literal meaning, but putting half a crown into his hand, told him she had some earnest business, and must see her. The doors instantly flew open, his lady was at home, and my mistress shewn up without any farther difficulty. 

[Page 9]
The Bishop's Lady was sitting at a snug party, with three or four select friends, and seemed not much pleased at the intrusion of my mistress, to whom she scarce deign'd a nod, but turning to the footman, 'I thought, sirrah, (said she) that I was not to be at home this evening! I suppose I shall have all the mob of the town let in upon me.' -'Dear madam, (replied my mistress) the man is not to blame! He told me you were not at home; but having some very earnest business, I made bold to break through your orders; but I hope for your pardon, when you know the cause of my intrusion.' -'O madam, (returned the Lady) you know I am always glad of your company. I only chide the fellow for not obeying my orders. Pray be seated, madam, as soon as the rubber is up, I shall wait upon you.' -'Dear madam, (added my mistress) you need not give yourself that trouble; now I am with you, my business can wait your leisure.' 

[Page 10]

CHAP. II. 

A genteel evening. A dream, and a bett, and a family supper. Conjugal tenderness. The Bishop's dejection at the death of the Doctor, and danger of the Archbishop, is diverted by another dream. 
When the rubber was finished, my mistress was asked to cut in, one of the party being taken suddenly ill, which she did, and set out the whole evening, her success at cards keeping up her spirits, and giving her hopes of the like in the greater affair she came about; but her patroness had very different fortune, having lost every rubber; and what was still worse, several by-bets, which she made to bring herself home. 
This put her into such a temper, that the moment the rest of the company was gone, she turned to my mistress, who saw them allout'And now pray, madam, may I ask what was the great business that brought you here this evening? (said she) Unlucky business it has been for me, I 
[Page 11]
know; for I have never held a card since you came: but I shall take care, that rascal, who let you in, shall never serve me so again! He shall strip and turn off, without his breakfast, the moment I am up in the morning.' -'Dear madam, (replied my mistress, unabash'd at such a salute) have patience a moment, and I hope to make you amends for all! Will you please to sit down to one sober party of picquet? You are always too hard for me, yet I'll venture all my winnings, and perhaps what I have to say, in the mean time, may compensate for my intrusion.' 
The lady could not imagine what she meant, but the thought of so good a match brought her a little to her temper, and though it was near ten o'clock, she set down to cards with as much keenness, as if six hours drudging at them had only whetted her desire for play. 
As soon as a repique or two had confirmed her good humour, my mistress says to her, 'Dear madam, that is right! Have you heard of the sad accident that happened this evening?' --'Not I, (replied the other) pray what was it?' --'Why, poor Doctor --- was taken short after dinner, and died in his chair!' ---'Aye, then I 
[Page 12]
suppose he had plumb-porridge, and overeat himself! and so burst a pudding, as we say to children. Ha, ha, ha!' - 'Ha, ha, ha! ---But pray, madam, have you any faith in dreams? What do you think? I dream'd last night that I saw you at court, on some great occasion, with just such a diamond necklace on, as the Countess's, which you had bought with 500l. that you won from me on a bett; you laying, that my husband would, and I that he would not, get the Doctor's living! Well, to be sure, there must be something more than ordinary in it; for can you believe it? this very morning, I put a bank-note for 500l. in my pocket, here it is; though I did not think of the poor man's death, till I heard it as I came by this evening, when my dream ran so strongly in my head, that I could not forbear breaking in upon you, a rudeness I should never have been guilty of on any other occasion.' ---' Dear madam, you need make no apology to me! You know your company is always welcome. I am always at home to you!' ---'But, madam, what do you think of my dream?' ---'I do not know. I only wish it were to prove true! For 500 l. could never come more seasonably.' ---'Then you must win it; 
[Page 13]
for my heart is set upon making the bett, and I assure you, I have such a regard for you, that I do not even wish you to lose! and that is what few gamesters can say.' -'You are a pleasant creature! but as for the Bett, it shall be upon condition, that my Lord is not under any engagement to the Minister, or her Grace, who got him his bishoprick. If he is disengaged, I will lay you, and you shall lose, my girl, if it was ten times as much, and there's encouragement for you to hold. The bell rings! Will you walk down, and take a bit of supper? There is no body but my Lord and I; but do not take the least notice of any thing about the matter, nor even seem to have heard of the Doctor's death, should my Lord mention it; but muster all your spirits, and be as entertaining as you can, for I always work him up best, when he goes to bed in a good humour.' 
The picquet-match being thus at an end, I was paid away to the Bishop's Lady, whose winnings and expectations sent her to supper in high spirits, where she found his Lordship already seated in a very thoughtful mood. 
After the usual complimentary expletives, that usher in every polite conversation, 'Pray, my Lord, (says my new 
[Page 14]
mistress to her husband) what will you eat? Shall I help you to a bit of this fricasee? I believe it is very good.' - 'No, my dear, I thank you, (replied his Lordship) I have not the least appetite! What is it pray?' -'Sweet-breads and cock's-comb's, (returned his lady) you used to like them, and they are very nice! Or will you help yourself to a bit of that fowl before you? something you must eat!- 'No, my dear, I am obliged to your care; but I do not chuse any thing to-night; I am not very well! We all eat too much! Repletion kills half the people of England! We eat too much!' -'You are going to be hip'd, my dear! John, give your master a glass of Madeira! Fill the glass! Eating never hurted any one, who washed down his victuals with a glass of good wine; horse-meals, indeed, are enough to choak human creatures! So! do not you find yourself better now? Taste this fricasee; you cannot think how good it is!' -'Well, you will have your way! You make me do as you please, though ever so contrary to my inclinations! Do you call this a fricasee? I thought fricasees had spice put in them! This is as insipid as chop'd hay! Lord deliver us from such cooks! The badness of 
[Page 15]
servants, in general, seems to be a judgment on the vices of the age!' -'Well, my dear, taste that fowl, it looks like a good one, and the cook could not spoil that. Pray, madam, shall I trouble you to help his Lordship to a leg and a wing, and a bit of the breast.' -'You give me too much! I shall never be able to eat all this! beside, you know, my dear, I chuse a bit of the rump.' -'Eat that first, my dear, and then you shall have the rump: but what has happened to make you so low-spirited this evening?' -'O child, who can be other than low-spirited, when such instances of mortality happen before our eyes every hour? Who can tell but the misfortune may be his own next moment? There's Doctor ---, poor man! was taken off this evening, without a minute's warning to prepare for such a tremendous change, just after he had made an hearty dinner! Here, John, take away my plate; I will not eat a bit more, nor ever sleep after dinner again!' -'And, John, give your master another bumper of Madeira; that was what the Doctor wanted; he eat a great deal, and did not allow himself any drink. Drink good wine, and never fear that eating will hurt you.' -'Ah! but that was not the case of his Grace of 
[Page 16]
---, who lies this moment in the agonies of death! his physicians left him two hours ago! The Lord prepare us all, and give us notice of his coming! He did not stint himself of wine; he took his bottle chearfully, good man!' -'Chearfully, did you say? I should have said sottishly; for he has done nothing but drink for these many years past! He has ran into the opposite extream from the Doctor, drinking too much, and not eating enough, to support nature. And I hope you do not say he has gone without warning at four-score? he has had time enough to prepare: but why should these examples affect you particularly? You do not eat like the Doctor, nor drink like his Grace, and are young enough to be son to the youngest of them; why then should you fear their fate? Here, John, give me a pint glass half full of Madeira, and reach me three or four of those jellies. Now, my dear, if you are afraid to eat or drink, sup this with a bit of bread, and I will answer for its agreeing with you.' 
My late mistress sat all this time at her supper, without being able to join in the conversation; but as soon as his Lordship's taking the jellies made a pause in his Lady's 
[Page 17]
tenderness, she called for a glass of wine, and bowing to the Bishop, drank to him by the title of his Grace very gravely. 
His Lordship started, and his Lady stared, while she finish'd her glass without any emotion, and seemed quite unconscious of having said any thing unusual or improper. This behaviour still embarrassed them more; when the Lady, unable to contain her surprize, 'Dear madam, (said she) what have you said? Or how came you to address my Lord by that title?' 'I hope, madam, (replied the other) I have not said any thing improper! You really frighten me! I hope I have not been failing in my respect, or addressed his Lordship by any improper title?' -'I cannot say an improper one indeed! but one that does not belong to him, at least as yet, (returned the Lady)'-'Dear madam, what do you mean? Pray do not distress me! but you must divert yourself surely! It is not possible that I could fail in my respect to his Grace!' -'Ha, ha, ha! There it is again! Fail in your respect! No. You only raised your respect too high! You call'd him his Grace, that's all.' -'And is that all? Thank heaven that I did! and long live his Grace, I 
[Page 18]
say again, (said she dropping on her knees, and eagerly kissing his hand) long live your Grace! There is, there must be truth in dreams, and infidels alone can doubt it.' 
At the mention of dreams, the Bishop, who had hitherto continued to sup up his jelly, without seeming to take any notice of what they were saying, could not forbear shewing some emotion; for he had the strongest faith in them, and always sanguinely defended their credit, especially since his present elevation had confirmed those of his grandmother; 'What dreams? pray good madam, (said he, addressing my late mistress with a visible anxiety) What dreams do you mean? Those which were thought to have respect to me, are understood to be already accomplished.' -'Please your Grace, (the impulse of the spirit is upon me, and I cannot call you by any other title!) Please your Grace, I say, I dream'd last night, as I told your Lady but just now, that I met her at court, on some very great occasion, as fine as hands could make her, (I told her this just now, before I knew one syllable of his Grace's death) and that she came up to me smiling, and thank'd me for the cause of her coming there, for it was I 
[Page 19]
who had made you a great Man! -Now what could this possibly mean, but what has happened here this moment, when by giving you this title first, (and Lord knows, I did it without the least design, or even being sensible of it when I did it) I may in some manner be said to have made you the great man it belong'd to: let the world say what they will, I do believe there is truth in dreams, and I think mine is out now.' 
She had ran on with this rant at such a rate, that it was impossible for the Bishop to interrupt her, even had he been so inclined; but that was far from being the case: he heard her with attention, and what she said made such an impression on him, that he sat some time musing on it, after she had stop'd, before he had power to speak a word. 
As for his Lady, she at once took it to be all a fetch, calculated merely to forward the scheme of the wager about the Doctor's living, and as such resolved to humour it, and not interrupt his meditations, but addressing herself to the other, 'Indeed, madam, (said she) I do not know what to say to this affair! When you told me your dream just now, I made nothing of it, but this account of his Grace's death 
[Page 20]
almost staggers me! Well, if this succeeds, and who knows what may happen? I shall ever hereafter have more faith in dreams!' 
CHAP. III. 

A dissertation on dreaming. The dream pursued to the astonishment, and almost conversion of the Bishop's Lady. Her veracity in recounting some circumstances relating to it. She and his Lordship perswade each other to dream that it is true. 
By this time his Lordship had considered the matter, and addressing himself to the dreamer, 'Pray, madam, (said he) what time had you this vision or dream? In the night, or towards the morning?' 'In the morning, my Lord, (replied she) at the conclusion of my second sleep: and, indeed, it made such an impression upon my mind, that I could not go to sleep after: for it was not in the confusion of common dreams! I saw every thing distinctly and regularly, as if I was in the very place; and particularly, your Lady appeared as 
[Page 21]
plainly to me as she sits there, Lord bless us! and by the same token, she was dress'd in white damask, spick and span new, and had the most beautiful diamond necklace on, that ever my eyes beheld; and charmingly she look'd I thought.' 
'I really do not know what to say to this matter, (replied his Lordship with great deliberation) the visions of the morning have ever been held in most repute; for then the mind has recovered from the fatigues of the preceding day, and is able to exert its abilities, and look forward into the time to come: there are some good circumstances I own in this dream! I am glad that my wife was not dress'd in colours; that would have been an ill omen; but white is the peculiar garment of success; angels are clad in white! and in this case particularly, it may prefigure the episcopal lawn, as that is an emblematical type of the purity of the episcopal function; and the episcopal and archiepiscopal differ only in degree. As for the necklace, there may be more in that also than is apprehended. Precious stones are the insignia of dignity, and in the Jewish priesthood particularly, were symbolical of the highest order; for none of the priests wore them, 
[Page 22]
but the supreme or high-priest, whose dignity answer'd nearly to that of Primate with us; and if such farther blessings should be in the divine will, it were impious and ungrateful to refuse its favours. But perhaps I speak unintelligibly to you; but the opinions of the learned must be delivered in their phrase.' -'Pray, my Lord, proceed; I could hear your Lordship for ever; I always am the wiser and the better for hearing your Lordship.' 
'Then as to the credit to be given to dreams, (resumed his Lordship) though the scepticism of these unhappy times may deny it, yet the piety of wiser antiquity was of another opinion, of which numberless instances might be given out of the holy scriptures. And among the Gentiles, the greatest of their poets says, ?????????????????, that is, in English, that dreams proceed from Jove, that is, from the supreme Deity, whom they erroneously call'd by that name. And tho' the heathens were guilty of great superstitions in this particular of dreams, it was not in the credit they gave them, but in the methods which they used to procure them; such as offering sacrifices, and sleeping in the skins of the victims, 
[Page 23]
and many others; whereas, the dream that comes from heaven, comes unsought and unexpected, and should be received with reverence! And if this is such, and I own it has much of the appearance, Thy will be done, O Lord! Thy servant submits as it is his duty!' 
Greatly as they must have been edified by this elaborate dissertation, the ladies had much ado to refrain from laughing in his face while he delivered it, especially his wife, who knew not which to admire most, the readiness of the thought, or the ease with which it was received. But the dreamer had a farther scheme in her head, to carry on which she now got up to go away; and bending the knee to the Bishop, 'My Lord, (said she) may I beg your Lordship's blessing! I hope, and I am confident in that hope, that mine was not a common dream, from the impression it made on my mind, which could not have been stronger, if I had actually been present at your Lady's kissing the King's hand on your promotion: but if my zeal has hurried me too far in my expressions of it, I rely on your goodness to forgive my fault, which was rather an enthusiasm than a design; and so, my 
[Page 24]
Lord, I beg leave to wish you a good night.' 
With these words she withdrew; and her patroness wondering she had not thrown her a wink, and desirous to have a laugh with her at her husband's credulity, went as to see her to her chair; when turning with her into another room, 'That was an excellent thought, (said she) and will make our affair quite easy, if he is not engaged.' -'I do not understand you, madam, (replied the other) pray what thought do you mean?' -'Why, child, that of the dream; what else should I mean?' -'A thought, dear madam! Why, do not you think I was serious, and the dream real?' -'Not one word of either I assure you; and I wonder at your asking me that question here, where no one is present to observe us!' - 'Dear madam, you have quite mistaken me, I assure you. It is true, I can jest sometimes; but in this, give me leave to say, that I was most serious; and what is more, that I am sure the event will confirm it.' - 'You astonish me, madam; I declare I look'd upon the whole as a mere finesse, to promote our scheme, about the Doctor's living; for your husband!' -'I am sorry, madam, that you should have such 
[Page 25]
an opinion of me, as that I could invent such a story on any account!' -'Well, (as I said before, though in another sense) I know not what to make of the whole! But as you are so positive, and my Lord seems inclined to believe you, perhaps there may be more in it than I can see; and therefore I shall suspend my opinion, till I see the end of it. This though I promise, that my assistance shall not be wanting to either part of the dream.' - 'And I promise you that I will make good all I said, particularly about the wager and the necklace; and so, madam, I wish you a good-night; I shall do myself the pleasure to call and see how you are in the morning.' 
This gave the whole affair a new face; and threw the Bishop's Lady into a mediditation as profound as his Lordship's. 'Can this be possible? (said she to herself) and yet, how could she have the face to stand it out so, if it was not true? But then it was but a dream! Aye, but my husband says, dreams are not to be slighted; and he should know more than I, at least of those things that are to be found in books. And what if it should be so after all? and that I should take place of Mrs--, and 
[Page 26]
Mrs--, and Mrs--, and all the rest of the Bishop's Ladies! -That would be charming! And I believe in my soul I shall; for I have always look'd upon them with a contempt that shew'd I should be one day their superior. Well, Happy come lucky, says the proverb; my endeavours shall not be wanting, as I promised Mrs--, whose 500l. will be a pretty earnest of the archbishoprick.' 
Having thus argued herself into a kind of belief of the dream, she went in to his Lordship, whom she found absorbed in thought about the vision: 'Well, my dear, (said she, sitting down by him) what is your opinion of this strange matter? I own it is above my comprehension! At first I imagined she might have been only in jest, and have invented the whole story merely to divert your lowness of spirits; but when I went out with her into the next parlour, and put it home to her, she still persisted in it, and confirmed the truth of what she said by such asseverations, that I could not avoid believing her.' 
'But, my dear, (replied his Lordship) she said she told you her dream before she came in here, or had heard a word of his 
[Page 27]
Grace's illness!' -'She most certainly did, my Lord; and with other circumstances, that make the whole still more surprizing! Pray what time did the Doctor die, my dear?' -'About half an hour after four.' -'That is most wonderful! And pray, my dear, who is to have his living? or are you under any engagement about it?' -'No, child, I am not; nor have I yet determined whom to give it to. But why do you ask these questions? What are they to the purpose of the dream?' -'I shall tell you, my Lord. You must know then that she came here about four o'clock, just as I had got up from dinner, all in the greatest hurry; and with a kind of wildness, I do not know how, in her looks, told me her dream; but with some circumstances, that I know her bashfulness would not permit her to mention before you; and these were, that I had bought the diamond necklace, she thought I had on at court, with 500l. which I had won from her, on a wager that you would give her husband the Doctor's living. Now as he was not even sick at the time of her telling me this, there could be no design in it; and this is what makes me take the more notice of the matter.' 

[Page 28]
'But are you sure, child, that she told you this so early as four o'clock?' -'Rather before it, my dear; and what makes me so positive about it is, that a little after she had finish'd her story, she happen'd to look at her watch, but it was down, and so she ask'd me what a clock it was by mine, that she might set by it; and I remember it wanted exactly six minutes of four.' -'Pray let me look at your watch; have you not alter'd it since?' -'No, my dear; but why do you ask?' -'Because it is nine minutes faster than mine, and it was just half an hour past four by his watch, as they told me, when he died, and his and mine were exactly together; so that the six minutes which your watch wanted of four, and the nine minutes it is faster than mine, make a quarter before four, which was three quarters before he died. This is most wonderful! for there could be no design nor art in it. This is most wonderful! But there have been many revelations made in dreams, even in our own times; as for instance, that in Drelingcourt; for it could be no other than a dream; and that other of the great Duke of Buckingham's rise, and afterwards of his death, as it is most judiciously and faithfully represented by the Reverend Historian* 10 , not to mention many 
[Page 29]
more. As to the Doctor's living, my dear, I make you a compliment of it; you may give it to whom you please: though the curate is a very learned and good man, and has a large family; beside that he has been recommended to me by the whole parish, whom his long residence among them, for he has been there above thirty years, has made love and respect him as a father.' -'Then let them provide for him, like dutiful children. What assurance! to pretend to dictate to you, as if you were not the proper judge of such matters! If it was for no other reason I would not give it to him, to teach them their duty and distance another time.' 
'There may be something in that; I do not like such interfering in my conduct neither; and therefore you may give it to whom you please. And her husband is a man of learning and good character too, who will not discredit any preferment; but take care that you do not do any thing improper. As to your wager, there is no harm in that; but even so, it should be kept a secret; I must know nothing of the matter.' -'I thank you, my dear Lord; I shall be sure to observe your directions; and the accomplishment of this part of the dream I take as an happy presage of the rest; but you must not be wanting to yourself; you had better, I think, 
[Page 30]
go to her Grace, and see what may offer to promote our hopes.' -'That is not a bad thought, my dear; but it grows late; in the morning we shall see what is to be done.' Saying this, they withdrew, whither we must not follow them, for of the genial bed, 'with most mysterious reverence I deem.' 
CHAP. IV. 

History of the dreamer. She loses her wager, which she pays with pleasure. His Lordship waits upon her Grace. His knowledge of the world promotes a noble instance of charity. Chrysal enters into the service of her Grace. 
I Have observed your surprize and admiration at the ready presence of mind and confidence of my late mistress, who could, in a moment, invent such a story, and persist in it so steadily, as not only to impose upon the Bishop's easy credulity, but even upon his wife also, who was, in a manner, in the secret of her design, but could not interrupt my story to satisfy it sooner, by giving you her history. 

[Page 31]
She was a distant relation to a noble Lord, on whom the extravagance of her father left her dependant. This occasioned her being taken into his family, where she lived several years as an humble companion to his Lady. As she was handsome, his Lordship had a mind for a nearer relation with her; but an unfashionable virtue prevented her compliance, which turned his love into the strongest hatred, for fear she should inform his lady, to whom she was not more agreeable, and upon the same account; as her observing temper had given her an opportunity of seeing much more than her Ladyship desired to have her tell. 
This made her situation very unhappy in the family, and inclined her to hearken to the addresses of the Chaplain, to whom his Lordship gave a small vicarage with her, as did his Lady 500l. that they might part decently, and not provoke her to speak. As for herself, you have seen that nature was liberal to her in the endowments of her mind, which the state she was bred in improved, or rather sharpen'd, into a thorough knowledge of the world, that enables her to take the advantage of all its follies. But to return to the Bishop and his Lady. This affair had made such an impression 
[Page 32]
on their minds, that they could dream of nothing else all night, but pomp and precedence, which effectually secured the grant, in favour of my late mistress, from all danger of revocation. 
They were scarce seated to breakfast, when word was brought them that she was below; upon which she was immediately invited up, her company being too agreeable to admit of any distance or reserve. 
The compliments of the morning being paid on all sides, his Lordship, with a look of great benevolence, ask'd her for her husband, and if he was at home; to which she answered that he was, and ready to pay his duty to his Lordship, if he had any commands to honour him with. 'None that will be disagreeable I hope, (replied his Lordship) and if he is at leisure'- 'At leisure, my Lord! (replied she in a kind of rapture, for a wink from the Lady had explained the matter to her) He is, he must be at leisure! No business can interfere with his duty! I'll step for him this moment.' -'You need not give yourself that trouble, madam, (return'd his Lordship). John, do you go, and tell Mr-- that I should be glad to speak with him. For, madam, I think I cannot do less than reward his 
[Page 33]
learning, piety, and good life, with the living of the poor Doctor. It is what I have long resolved, though I never mentioned it before, because I would not torture him with expectations; and I give it to him now, thus early and unask'd, to spare his modesty, and to save myself from the sollicitations of others.' 'Long live, God bless your Grace! (said she, throwing herself at his feet, and embracing his knees in extasy) for so I see it will be, every thing will come out just according to my dream! I could not forbear sending to the late Archbishop's, just before I came here, and the porter (for I would not send a servant, for fear my known attachment to your Lordship should make it taken notice of) brought me word, that he was at peace.' -This compleated the Bishop's faith, and prevented his sending to enquire, for the same delicate reason that she gave. 
'I must wish you joy, madam, (said the Bishop's Lady) of this advance in your fortune! Though I am almost angry that my Lord did not let me into the secret. I have lost some hours happiness by his reserve; for I always make the happiness of my friends my own.' - 'Dear madam, I thank you; on my knees I 
[Page 34]
thank, I pray for you both! And give me leave, madam, to wish YOU joy of his Lordship's promotion, and of your just advance in rank, as well as of all the ornaments belonging to it!' -'The necklace I suppose you mean? Ha, ha ha!' -'I do, indeed, dear madam, and of every other happiness that can attend so elevated a station.' 
Her husband now entered in the utmost agitation of spirits, between hope and fear; for he was not a stranger to his wife's scheme; (indeed he had suggested the first hint of the bett himself, but with an address that made her think it was her own, he spoke so distantly; for he always preserved the appearance of character, even with her) and the ladies not thinking it proper to be present at the mysterious ceremony of the Bishop's signing the collation, which he did directly, to avoid giving offence, by refusing other applications, they withdrew, when my mistress was paid her bett, with as great pleasure, by the loser, as she felt in receiving it. 
The dream being thus far happily accomplished, the successful dreamer and her husband went home in the highest joy, at being at length relieved from the anxiety of dependance, and the fears of want; while my 
[Page 35]
Lord prepared to pay his duty at her Grace's levee, and see whether any thing should offer that might promote his part of it. 
When he was ready to go, he call'd to his Lady, to receive her advice, and recollecting that he had forgot his purse, desired to borrow hers, in which I was; and thus I changed my service once more. 
When his Lordship entered her Grace's levee, and had paid his most humble respects, he found the conversation turn on a melancholy accident that had lately happened to a village in his diocese, which was entirely burnt to the ground by an accidental fire. There were many circumstances so moving in the account of this misfortune, as to raise the compassion of the whole company, and particularly of her Grace, who said, that she would most willingly contribute to the relief of their distress, but that unluckily she had not less than a bank note for 20l. about her. 
All the company, who knew the world, understood her Grace, and drop'd the subject; but my new master, who had his knowledge of mankind mostly from books, was so far from taking the hint, that he thought he shew'd his respect for his patroness, by offering to change her note, or lend her whatever money she wanted. 

[Page 36]
Her Grace was surprized, as the company were confounded, at the ignorant insolence of such an offer. However, as this was not an occasion for shewing her resentment, she coldly told him, she would trouble him for the change, and having received it, gave two guineas to the person who had mentioned the affair, and carelessly threw the rest, among which I was, into her pocket, not caring to pull out her purse, as it was full of money. 
My late master, pleased with the thought of having been instrumental in so meritorious a benevolence, display'd his eloquence in thanks to her for her eminent charity to his poor flock, and then gave a guinea himself; for respect to her Grace would not permit him to exceed the half of her bounty, as did the rest of the company, who all laugh'd in their sleeves, to think how my master had ruined himself with her Grace, by his blunder. 
But his mind was too full of the dream to observe their looks, and he was so far from being sensible that he had done amiss, that when her Grace was going to retire, he boldly step'd up to her, and beg'd leave to speak a word or two with her, in private. 

[Page 37]
Though the assurance of this request greatly aggravated his former offence, yet she could not decently refuse such a favour to his rank, and therefore slightly nodded to him to follow her. 
CHAP. V. 

The Bishop obtains the honour of a private audience. His extensive charity. He makes her Grace his almoner, to relieve his fellow protestants, in Germany. He is strangely affected at the news of the archbishop's recovery. Her Grace's character. 
The great honour of this private audience, at first put him into some confusion, but recollecting the consequence at stake, he, after much hesitation, made a shift to tell her, that, 'sensible of her Grace's great humanity and commiseration for the sufferings of the distressed, of which she had just given so noble an instance'-'Pray, my lord, no compliments, (said her Grace, interrupting him with a look and accent not very encouraging) I am not at present at leisure for 
[Page 38]
them, and if you have no other business' '-May it please your Grace, (replied the bishop) your virtues are above compliment! and I come to give you an opportunity of exerting them, not solely to praise them'-'I do not understand you, my Lord! and I am in some haste!' - 'I most humbly beg your Grace's pardon! I shall not delay you long! To come then briefly to the purpose, I must inform your Grace, that out of the income which it has pleased the divine Providence, through your Grace's means, to give me, I have thought it my duty to lay by some little matter, to make a return with, to the divine beneficence, in charity to his distressed creatures. Now, as your Grace's kind interest was the means through which this ability was conferred upon me, I have made bold to trouble you with the distribution of my mite.' -'Me, my Lord? You astonish me! I cannot comprehend you!' -'I beg your Grace's indulgence for a moment. You will forgive this boldness, when you know the motive!-hem! hem! 
'The sufferings of my Protestant brethren in Germany, (I say brethren, for men should know no distinction, but religion) their sufferings, I say, in this 
[Page 39]
calamitous time of war and rapine, when the ambition of princes works the ruin of their people, has made such an impression upon my heart, that I come to offer this small matter to your Grace, to be applied to their relief, as your better knowledge shall see most proper: a trouble which I should not have presumed to give your Grace, did not I know that such works of charity are a pleasure to you; and that the better information, which in your high rank you must necessarily have, will enable you to apply it more effectually to their relief than I, in the darkness and ignorance of my humble station, possibly can. I am almost ashamed of the smallness of the sum, (it is but 2000l.) but it is all that I have yet been able to save; though I hope to give a better account of my stewardship another time; and that I shall be found not to have buried my talent, especially if it should please the Divine Providence to raise me to an higher station, and thereby put the means more liberally into my power.- 
'I most humbly beg your Grace's forgiveness of this intrusion on your time. I am, your Grace's most humble servant.' -'Stay my Lord, (returned 
[Page 40]
her Grace, with a look and accent softened into the most engaging affability) Pray do not go; I see you so seldom, except in the croud, that I can not part with you so soon. I thank you for the confidence you place in me; and shall apply your charity to the best of my judgment. Poor people! they greatly want relief, and if the invincible fortitude of the Bulgarian monarch, does not extricate them soon, they will be entirely ruined. But every thing is to be hoped for, from such an hero! 
'You are very good to consider the distresses of the poor people! there are few now who think of any thing but themselves, so their appetites are satisfied, they have no feeling for what others suffer. But, my Lord, is there any thing that I can serve you in? You may depend upon my interest at all times.' - 'I am much beholden to your Grace (replied his lordship, elevated at such an offer, and now safe as he thought of his hopes) I am much beholden to your Grace! I have had too much experience of your Grace's goodness to doubt it. Nothing, that I know of at present: if any thing should happen, I shall be most grateful to your Grace for your kind remembrance. We are all desirous of having our power to do good, enlarged.'- 

[Page 41]
'Yes, my Lord; all good men, like your Lordship, are. It is a duty to desire so. But, have you heard any thing of the archbishop of --- lately? -'Not very lately, please your Grace.' -I believe that old man will never die! He was taken with a fit Yesterday, and it was thought he would expire every moment. But he has got over it, and is abroad to day as well as he has been for many years.' -'In-d-e-e-d!' What is the matter Lord? something seems to ail you.' --'A-- a-sud-den -f- faint-ness- has- come-o o-ver -me; I- m-ust- beg- y--our Grace--'s- p-ardon-, I- am y--our- Grace--'s--- m-ost- h-- h-- hum-ble servant-;' with which words he made a bad shift to crawl out, muttering to himself-O my money! my money! O! this cursed dream; my money! my money!'- 
Her Grace looked earnestly after him for a few minutes, as if lost in thought, and then bursting into a loud laughter, And is it so, my good lord! does the wind sit that way? Then I can account for your charity. Ha! ha! ha!- 
'But you are disappointed this time, and, I fear, will the next too, if you do not bid better. Two thousand for five 
[Page 42]
thousand a year! Is that your conscience! But it will never do.'- 
I was now at the summit of human grandeur, the favourite of the favourite, of a mighty monarch. For curiosity tempting me to take a view of my new mistress's heart, as she sat at her toilet; I found myself established there without a rival, in the most absolute authority, every passion being subservient to my rule; even the love of power, which had, in every other instance, disputed the empire with me, being here my most abject slave, and encouraged for no other reason than solely to promote my interest; the mighty spirit of the immense mass of gold, which my mistress had accumulated, having taken entire possession of her soul. 
CHAP. VI. 

An odd visitor to a lady. The mystery of stock-jobbing. Charity begins at home. Her Grace's kind intentions for honest Aminadab. Another visitor. The worth of honour. The best salve for a broken character. 
As soon as the mysteries of the toilet were over, and my mistress's face finished for the day, a person entered to 
[Page 43]
her, whose appearance was far from promising such an intimacy with a female of her rank. 
The most shabby, squallid dress covered a distorted carcass, not much above four feet high, but so gross, that, laid upon his back, he would have cast a shadow nearly as long as when he stood upright. A deep olive complexion, an Aquiline nose, and a mouth from ear to ear, fringed round with a greasy, curled beard, made the beauty of his face correspond with the elegance of his figure. 
This extraordinary person approached her Grace, without introduction or ceremony, and entering immediately upon business, told her, 'that he came to know if she meant to buy in that day, for the report raised in the Alley, by their express from abroad, had given such a stroke to the funds, that they had tumbled to the ground; but would most certainly rise again the next day, as soon as the news, which had arrived that morning, should be known; which could not be kept a secret, as the people wanted some thing to keep up their spirits, among so many miscarriages, and divert them from making too close enquiries into the conduct of affairs.' 

[Page 44]
'Why! my honest friend Aminadab! (replied her Grace) I must be directed in these matters by you. If you think there is any thing to be got, by buying in to day, with all my heart: though I must own I cannot conceive why you should sell out, the very last week, to buy in this.' 
'Ah! my lady (returned Aminadab) there is a mystery in all business, and in none greater than ours. The Bulgarian King's success last week raised people's spirits so high, that they thought the world was to be all their own, and therefore bought at any price. Now that was the time for a prudent person to sell, as I advised your Grace; which we had no sooner done, than instantly comes an express, (of our own) with an account that the enemy had turned upon him in their retreat, and entirely vanquished the vanquishers. 
'This news quite overthrew the spirits raised by the former, and made every one eager to sell out at any loss, for fear the enemy should get wings and fly over, to take all they had. Now as this was but a terror raised by ourselves, we take the advantage of it, and so buy in when others are selling out 20per cent. cheaper than we ourselves 
[Page 45]
sold out last week, when the madness bent the other way; and may perhaps sell again the next, when another packet shall set things right, and bring the people back their senses. For the senses of the people of this country are more inconstant than the Moon, depending entirely upon the winds that blow them news.' 
'But is it really possible that any people can be such fools?' 'O, please your Grace, they are only too rich! They have more money than they know what to do with; that is all.' --'Then Aminadab, we will ease them of some of the burthen. But would it not be better to conceal this news for another day; might not that make them fall still lower?' -'But, my lady, the people want the good news.' -'The people may hang themselves in despair, I care not, so I get money.' -'The government though'--'What is the government to me; I will get all I can, and then leave them to themselves, to sink or swim as they will; it is all one to me.' - 'That is true; your Grace says right. A people who do not know, or at least, will not follow their own interest, are not worth any person's care, longer than while he can make something of them. But we must reserve that stroke for another 
[Page 46]
time. This news has got into the offices, and nothing there is a secret you know. Besides the Pannick was too violent to last; it begins to wear off already: in another day they would recover their senses of themselves. I think, therefore, with your Grace's approbation, to buy in all I can to day; without you had rather lay out your money in the supplies, for the Protestants of Germany.' -'With all my heart, if you can make as much of it that way as in the funds: but not otherwise. I would not lose one shilling for any people under heaven!' 
'Your Grace has a just notion of the world, and of the value of money that governs it. Indeed, I must say, that the terms for these supplies are very unreasonable, considering how such things have been done, for some time past. It is expected that people should bring in their money, without any premium, or other advantage, than what was publickly calculated for, at the granting them. But these conomists will find themselves mistaken. The world is wiser now a-days, than to give up advantages which they have once got possession of. As to that affair, therefore, I should think it better to let it stand a little longer, till the necessity becomes 
[Page 47]
more urgent, and then they will be glad to come into our terms, if it were not that the poor people may be ruined in the mean time; so that indeed I am at a loss what to advise your Grace to do, in so nice an affair.' 
'Why let them be ruined then: it is not my fault nor my business to save them; nor will I part with a shilling to do it. Besides, if they do suffer by the delay, those who gave them this supply to prevent their ruin, may give them another to repair it.' -'I cannot but admire your Grace's judgment in all things. You are above the foolish weaknesses of nature, and have the noble resolution to see your own family perish, rather than injure your own interest, to relieve them. I shall obey your Grace in all things. I go now to the Alley, where business will soon begin.' -'Do honest Aminadab, and fear not; though I could not procure an establishment for your whole nation, as I would have done, I certainly will for your family, and that is enough for you. Your son shall be made a BARONET at least; you have riches enough to support the title.' 
'Your Grace is very good; our people are all satisfied of your kind intentions: but, alas, that was a severe disappointment 
[Page 48]
to us, after costing us so much money. The children of the Lord weep over it in their synagogues, and the daughters of Sion lament it in their songs; but my household shall rejoice in thy favour, and the labours of my life prove my gratitude for it.' 
Honest Aminadab was no sooner gone, than there entered an agent, seemingly of another nature, this dealing in honours as the other did in money; but the difference between them was only in appearance, the end of both being ultimately the same. 
'May it please your Grace, (said he, advancing with due reverence and ceremony) I come to wait upon you, about that place in the ---: that gentleman will not, indeed cannot, give one shilling more for it.' -'Then let the other have it; I will not lose five pence, much less 500 l. for him.' -'But, please your Grace, you know what grounds he has to expect it on; besides your promise, which cannot well be broken through, it was so positive.' -'My promise was only conditional (in my own intention) that he should give me as much as another, and in no other sense will I keep it. As for his grounds of expectation I regard them not: let him make the most of them, where he can.' -'Just as your Grace 
[Page 49]
pleases; I only took the liberty of speaking my own opinion, but always in submission to your's. Not but I must own I am apprehensive of this gentleman's resentment, though not immediately for myself, so much as for your Grace's character, with which he may be provoked to make too free upon such an affair.' -Aye! that is liberty, your boasted English liberty, to speak disrespectfully of your superiors. But I despise whatever he can say; nor will I give up my own way for fear of his impertinence.' -'Very right; your Grace is very right. It were by no means fit that you should: but then it is be considered, whether this breach of promise may not be attended with inconveniencies, that may overballance the advantage, as it may make others afraid to deal with you another time.' -'I will venture that: none come to me but for their own advantage, and while they can find that, they will scarce stay away for punctilio's. So let me hear no more of this, but close with the other directly.' 
'Will not your Grace please to abate of your demand for that place in Ireland? I really fear you rate it too high.' -'Not a shilling! I will not abate a shilling! Surely I ought to know the value of things in Ireland by this time! I have had sufficient 
[Page 50]
dealings there, to teach me; it has been my privy purse for many years.' -'But what I fear is, that if your Grace does not fix upon some one directly the lord deputy may, and that would disappoint you; for this place has ever been immediately in his gift, and it would reflect a kind of dishonour on him, to give it up.' -'Dishonour indeed! I am much concerned for his honour certainly! And as for his naming any one to contradict me, I believe he will be cautious how he does that. The example of his predecessor will teach him.' -'However, if your Grace pleases, to prevent any disputes, I will wait on him, and tell him that you have a friend, whom you design to recommend.' -'With all my heart; you may if you will. But as to the price, I will not abate one shilling, as I said before. Do not I know that places in that country are either mere pensions, without any thing to do, or even necessity of ever going there at all, or where that can not be dispensed with, from the nature of the place, that no learning, no abilities are requisite. If it was here indeed, where knowledge in a profession is absolutely necessary to a place in it, there might be something in higling about the price, but for a coward to scruple paying for being made a general, or a blockhead a judge, there 
[Page 51]
can be nothing more unreasonable; and I will not hear another word about itBut what have you done about those titles, which I gave you to dispose of.' -'Really I do not know what to say to your Grace about them: the bent of the people does not seem to incline to honours of late.' - 'No; I thought they were always as good as ready money; especially with those who have more money than sense, and think it easier to buy, than earn honour by merit. An IRISH title was the constant refuge of those sons of fortune, who not being born in the rank of gentlemen, or having forfeited it, by their villainies, were desirous of changing their names for sonorous titles, to hide their disgrace, as it were, under an heap of honours, which in reality only make them the more exposed to the view, and consequently to the censure, of the worldBut I find, even that imaginary sense of honour is gone out of fashion, and the shadow is in no more request than the substance, at present. But since they are grown such a drug, even make the most you can of them: sell them to whoever will buy; I shall take no exceptions to persons.' 
'I shall certainly do the best I can for your Grace, though they have been so oddly given away of late, that I verily 
[Page 52]
believe people are ashamed of taking them, for fear of being laughed at. Rattles are given to children, but titles to old men to divert them; to some, in reward for not doing the very worst possibly in their power; and to others, for doing nothing at all--But pray, has your Grace seen the old colonel yet? he got his commission yesterday; I wish he may mean your Grace fairly.' -'Why? sure you do not imagine he can have the assurance to think of playing me a trick?' -'I do not positively say so; but his behaviour has been very mysterious.' 
Just then, a servant let her Grace know, that the very colonel, of whom they were talking, desired leave to wait upon her. 'I thought so, (said she) shew him up: I thought he would not dare to trifle with me!' 

[Page 53]

CHAP. VII. 

The Colonel puts the old soldier upon her Grace. Her rage and resentment fall upon her agent. Her judicious application of the Bishop's charity, with her tender concern for her friends abroad. 
The colonel advanced to her Grace with the assurance of conscious virtue sparkling in his eye, though sharpened by a cast of indignation. 'I come (said he) please your Grace, to return you my thanks for your favours: I have got my commission, and had the honour, just now, to kiss his majesty's hand upon it; and as your recommendation was more effectual to procure me this reward than the labours of a life, which has not been undistinguished in the service, I thought it my duty to make your Grace this acknowledgment, and to offer you any service in the power of an honest heart, and no bad hand, in return.' 'Colonel (replied her Grace) I am glad that it has been in my power to serve a man of your 
[Page 54]
character, and I do not desire any such return.' -'I am much obliged to your Grace for your good opinion (returned he) which I hope I shall never forfeit. I thank God, my character will not disgrace your recommendation; nor shall you ever have reason to blush at the mention of my name. I have the honour to be your Grace's most humble servant.' 
'But colonel (said the gentleman, the agent, who stood by) though her Grace has no occasion for such a return as you offer, having no quarrels to be sought, there is a return of another nature, which you should not forget, especially as you promised it too.' -'Why look you sir, (replied the colonel) as to that matter, it is most certain that I did, something like, promise some such thing, but when I have told the whole affair honestly to her Grace, I am sure she will be above demanding it.' -'Sir, (said her Grace) I do not desire to hear any thing more about it! and I must tell you that you have behaved like an old knave.' -'Say an old soldier rather madam, (replied he, with some warmth) the other is a term I am not used to.' -'A pretty distinction truely, (joined the agent) and well worthy of a man of honour.' -'Have a care sir, 
[Page 55]
guard your expressions; my respect, my obligations to her Grace will make me bear any thing from her, but I must be so free as to tell you, that I have not the same sentiments for you'-'What are you going to make a riot in my apartments!' - 'Not in the least madam; my respect for your Grace is a sufficient security from that. I would only hint it to that gentleman, that he may not always have the protection of your Grace's presence; that is all madam.' -'You are a knavish old ruffian. But I shall take care that you do not come off so.' ---'As your Grace pleases for that. By the laws of my country I can not lose my commission, while I do my duty, nor will my gracious master be influenced to do me wrong, though, in the multiplicity of greater affairs, my services, my hardships could not reach his eye. But as I would not bear the imputation of any crime, much more, so black ones, as dishonesty or ingratitude, you must give me leave to set this affair in a just light to your Grace now, especially as I may never have another opportunity of doing myself that justice. 
'Enraged almost to desperation to find that thirty years service, the merits of which were often written in my blood, 
[Page 56]
and stand recorded in these scars, were not sufficient to procure me the regular advances of my rank, without a merit of another nature, I resolved to quit the barren paths, which I had so long pursued in vain, and try those methods which I saw practised with success by others: I therefore applied myself to your Grace, who seemed struck with my hardships, and promised me your favour; referring me, for more particular information, to this gentleman, who would have lowered my sense of your goodness, by loading it with terms, which were not in my power to fulfil. 
'Had your Grace mentioned them to me yourself, I should most certainly have owned my inability; but coming from him, I looked upon them as the finesse of his own art, which it was not unjustifiable to return with a feint of mine; and therefore I gave an equivocal acquiescence with his proposal, for he dares not say I made a particular or positive promise of any thing. 
'If I have done wrong in this I am mistaken, and sorry for it, but still it is not within the article of war, that makes an error in judgment criminal, because it was not against an enemy; but by all the 
[Page 57]
rules of war, and that is my profession, and the only one that I have studied, it is allowable to oppose art to art, and try to foil the devil at his own weapons. This is what I have done, and the success of this stratagem, which has effected by a Coup de Main what I had been making regular advances to, so long in vain, proves the justness of my plan, and must extort your Grace's approbation, when the passion raised by this gentleman's mercenary influence shall cool.' 
Saying thus, the veteran marched off in triumph, leaving my mistress and her agent staring at each other in the strongest surprize. 
Her Grace found utterance first, and having no other object of her rage, turned all its violence upon her agent: 'So then said she) after all, I find the old ruffian has outwitted you, with a general promise, or no promise at all, it seems, for you did not dare to contradict him. I thought sir, that I had cautioned you before, against this very thing, and given you positive orders to take nothing but the money. But you shall pay for your neglect! you shall make good the loss to me! As for the old ruffian I will speak to his general, and have him broke for a cheat. Talk 
[Page 58]
to me of his services! what are his services to me! but I will have him broke; his example shall terrify others from attempting to abuse me so again.' 
'I wish it were proper or possible (replied her agent, as soon as want of breath made her stop) for your Grace to have him punished for his insolence, but such a tongue as his might lay matters too open, if once set a-going, for you see he is not to be over-awed to any thing. As for his commission, there is no loss in it; for it was ordered for him before I applied; though I made him think it was obtained by your interest, to try what I could bring him to. Your Grace may be assured that I would not have taken any promise, had it been otherwise; and I was just going to tell you this, when his coming prevented me.' -'It may be so (returned she) but I shall be better satisfied of it, before I give up your making good the loss.' 
The agent was relieved from farther persecution for that time, by the entrance of a messenger, who was going to Germany, and called to know if her Grace had any commands for her friends there. 'None but my good wishes and prayers for their deliverance (replied she, with a deep 
[Page 59]
drawn sigh) which are constantly offered up for them. I am sorry I am not able to send them any relief from myself; but I have nothing in my power, no places, no opportunities of getting any thing: these few pieces (taking about a dozen guineas from her pocket, where she had thrown the bishop's change of her note) are all, at present, in my possession; give them to my dear mother, with my duty, and tell her I will send her the cloaths she wrote for, as soon as possible; and assure the rest of my friends of my constant attention to their interest.' 

[Page 60]

CHAP. VIII. 

Chrysal changes his service, for that of an usual attendant upon the great. The history of the unfortunate glyster-pipe-maker, who was like to be hanged for dirtying his fingers. By a natural progression, Chrysal comes to an horse-race, where he learns from a noble brother of the snaffle, some part of the mysterious science of the turf, with other common occurrences. 
I Was, by this time, so sick of High Life, that I was very glad of being one of the number, her Grace gave to the messenger, as I saw no prospect of pleasure in such a service. He had no sooner received her Grace's commands, than he immediately went to the office for his dispatches, where he was sent on another errand, while they were getting ready. 
This was to apprehend a poor wretch, who sold glyster-pipes about the streets, but being unable to get bread in his profession, had fallen upon a scheme, that he imagined might raise him to the notice of the 
[Page 61]
world, in the light of a state-criminal, and get him his hunger well satisfied, while he should be an happy prisoner, for offences which he imagined could not be attended, with any bad consequences. 
Big with this project, he had entered into a correspondence with some person abroad, of equal consequence with himself, and to him communicated the secret intelligence which he daily picked up at coffee houses, or found in the publick news-papers, which his great friend was to forward to some great person, in the service of the enemy. 
He had long continued this trade unnoticed, as he thought, though all his letters had been opened at the post-office, but the stuff contained in them was thought below regard; so that he began to fear that his scheme would turn to no account. But now some miscarriages alarming the resentment of the people, and making it evident, that the secrets of the nation were betrayed, this insignificant creature was thought of, and ordered to be taken into custody. 
Though this was the thing which he had always proposed by his undertaking; to keep up the farce, he counterfeited the strongest terrors, and put on every appearance of conscious guilt, so far, that he had like to 
[Page 62]
have over-acted his part, and fallen a sacrifice to the law, which he only meant to illude: a just judgment on the base depravity of soul, that could descend to so iniquitous a scheme, as to trifle with his sacred duty to his country, to support an anxious, burdensome being. 
For his counterfeited fears not only gave weight to the appearances, which were before so very strong against him, but also made it probable that he was guilty of more, than he was at first even suspected of: this justified the prosecuting him with the utmost severity, and sacrificing him to the indignant rage of the people, who called aloud for some victim, to atone for their reproachful losses. 
The criminal soon perceived his error, and would have recanted all he had said; but this was not admitted him; his own confessions had confirmed the charge against him, and he was given up to the laws; to which, on the evidence of such strong appearances, though no intelligence could be proved against him, but what he shewed the publick authority mentioned before for, his life was declared a forfeit. 
But the contemptibility of his station and behaviour proved his safety, and mercy was extended to a wretch beneath vengeance, after he had served the turn, and amused the people for his day. 

[Page 63]
I did not then stay in England, to see the event of this affair, but having learned it since my return, I thought it better to conclude the story in this place together, than to interrupt my narrative with it, at another time. 
It would be doing injustice to my master, to imagine that he had profited so little, by his frequent intercourse with persons in genteel life, and particularly by her Grace's late example, as to think it necessary to apply the money she had given him, to any other use than his own: accordingly he paid me away to a man who kept a beer-house, who gave me to an attorney, to defend him against a prosecution for entertaining a gang of street-robbers, and buying their booty. By the attorney I was given, in the course of business, to a knight of the post, whose evidence was to acquit the publican. From this conscientious person, as he was on his way to a country assizes, where the lives of many depended on his good-nature, I was taken by an high-wayman, who lost me that evening to a nobleman at an horse race. 
In the three or four last changes of my service there was nothing remarkable. The progression was natural, and the events common: but I must own I was a good deal 
[Page 64]
surprized at several occurrences in my present station, which were, in the proper course of things, so strange and unaccountable, that the most whimsical devil could never have thought of them, without information. 
The gentleman who had acquired me so easily on the road, and brought me to the meeting, was a native of a neighbouring nation, who, on the credit of his skill, in the mysterious science of chance, supported by a good stock of assurance and personal courage, had come over to make his fortune, in which design he had really so far succeeded, that he had lived, for several years, in the highest life, and maintained the appearance of the estate he talked of in his own country, by the sole force of his genius, the fertility of which was not confined to one resource; but, when fortune frowned upon his labours at play, was always ready to redress the effects of her malice, by the method in which I came into his possession. 
The roads had been bad that morning, which kept him a little later than usual, so that the company were at the post, when he joined them. By their noise and appearance as we rode up to them, I took them for a croud of their own servants; 
[Page 65]
their dress being exactly the undress uniform, of that party-coloured tribe; and every voice being exerted with the same vehemence, and in the like style of oaths and imprecations, with which those gentry receive them, at the door of a play-house or palace, so that I scarce knew how to believe my senses, when I recognized the faces of several persons of the most elevated station, and particularly, all those among whom I had spent the evening, I described to you at the club, on my first coming to this part of the world. 
As soon as the bets were made, and the noise began to subside a little, my master pressed through the mob of pick-pockets, bubbles, lords, and jockies, and came up to the post, just as they were preparing to start, when calling to one of the grooms, 'Well, my lord,' (said he); 'Well, Jack, (replied the other) where have you been all day?' This was all the discourse they had time for, the horses going off, that moment: but on the strength of this, my master backed his lordship deeply. 
It is impossible to describe to you, who have never seen any thing of the kind, a scene of such confusion as the field was during the running, the whole mob, high and low, riding headlong from place to place, 
[Page 66]
and driving against each other, without any respect to rank, or regard to safety, and roaring out their bets, and shouting for joy, at every vicissitude in the running. At length the heat was ended, but so contrary to my master's expectation, that he lost, to a noble duke, who was in the secret, not only all the fruits of his morning's campaign, but a large sum besides, more than he was able to pay him. 
This was a severe stroke. He rode directly up to the post, and addressing the same groom, just as he come out of the scales; ''f blood, my lord, (said he) how could you fling me so. I am quite broke up: his Grace has touched me for 500, and the devil of the thing is, that I have been so torn down by a bad run of late, that I am quite out of cash, and have not a shilling to pay him.' -'How could this be, (replied the groom) did I not give you the word? but you are such a careless son of a bitch.' -'The word with a vengeance, (answered my master) you returned my well, but I have found it very ill.' -'Aye, I guessed it was so, (added the groom) you were ignorant that we were smoaked, and found it necessary to change the lay. Where the devil were you all this morning? taking a 
[Page 67]
ride, I suppose: you will never leave off, till these rides bring you to a ride in a cart to Tyburn: but keep out of his Grace's way till the horses start, and we will bring you home, I will engage. He thinks he has all the secret, but he is mistaken this bout, and shall pay for his entrance before we admit him to be one of us.' -This discourse passed as they were walking together to a booth, where the groom was to rub, and settle the next heat. 
You are surprized at this familiarity, between my master, and the groom. When he first addressed him by the title of, My lord, I own I thought it no more than a cant, which in the freedom of this intercourse, where lords and lacquies are upon a level, is common: but what was my astonishment at a nearer view, to see that he really was the thing he was called, and that a laudable ambition of excelling in every, the meanest art, had induced him, and many others of his rank, who were riding against him, to take the place of their servants in this fatiguing and dangerous employment, ennobling, by this condescension, the most abject and vile offices, with the honours earned by the merit and virtues of their ancestors. Strange ambition, at a 
[Page 68]
time when the interest and glory of their country called for their assistance. 
As soon as the noble groom and my master were alone; 'Now Jack, what think you of my little stun-orse? (says his lordship). You must know that I have measured the foot of them all, in this heat, and find that I have the heels by a distance at least; but the weights are above my trim. However, we have a remedy for that; look at this cap (taking one out of a chest, in which his running dress had been brought to the ground,) this is a leaden skull, and weighs above two stun; put this on your head, the thickness of your own skull will prevent its giving you the head-ach: aye, it fits you very well. Now I will wear this to the post, and just before we start, complain that my cap is too wide, and borrow your's to ride in, and then when I alight at the scales, after the heat is over, I will pull off your's, as if to wipe my face, and give it to you to hold, who can return me this, to weigh in, and as I wear the same trusses, stuffed with handkerchiefs, in which I carried the weight last heat, they will never suspect usHa, Jack, what say you to this! match me this, among all your Hibernian tricks if you 
[Page 69]
can. Go your way: double with his Grace, and lay all you can, I'll go with you; but be sure to meet me at the post before, and at the scales after the heat, and not to blow the business, by being in too great an hurry.' 
I see you wonder how his lordship should put such confidence in my master, as he seemed to know him so well; but the truth was, my master's character for courage was so well established, that it bore him through things every day of his life, unconvicted at least, if not unsuspected, for which a more timorous villain would have been pilloried; and this made the other think him the safest person to entrust with the execution of such a scheme, as no one would dare to attempt examining the cap, or preventing his reaching it to his lordship The finesse succeeded; his lordship beat every tail hollow; and my master not only cleared with his Grace, but also won considerably for himself, and his confederate beside. Things were carried on, in the same genteel manner, for the remainder of the meeting, at which there was a vast concourse of the best company, the weather being very delicate, the turf in choice order, and the sport very fine, and so fair that the knowing-ones were all taken in, and to 
[Page 70]
make the pleasure compleat, though the croud was so great, there was no unlucky accident happened, except to two of the noble grooms, one of whom was borne down in the crossing, by the superior strength of a servant, who rode against him, and sliped his shoulder; and the other broke his neck, by his horse's falling in the running. 
It was on a sporting bet, on one of the bye-matches, that I was lost that evening, to the nobleman, as I said, in whose possession I happened to remain to the end of the meeting. The next morning, after my new master's return to London, he went to pay his court to the heir of the crown, who was then at one of his country seats. 

[Page 71]

CHAP. IX. 

Chrysal's master pays his court to a great person, who seems not much to relish his humour, and expresses some unfashionable sentiments concerning polite pleasures. In the course of a regular circulation, Chrysal comes into the possession of a minister of state, who refuses a friendly offer for very odd reasons. His strange notion of some affairs. 
Some publick occasion had brought a concourse more than usual, in those retirements, to pay their duty to the prince that morning. As my master was one of the last who came, as soon as his devoirs were ended, some of the company accidentally asked him, what had kept him so late; on which, with an easy air of pleasantry, he answered aloud, that 'He had been detained by a very whimsical affair: a certain nobleman, (said he) went into company last night, so immensely drunk, that having set in to play, and lost 5000l. he quite forgot it this morning, and refused to pay the money, till 
[Page 72]
some person of honour, who was unconcerned in the matter, should vouch his having lost it fairly, on which it was refer'd to me, and sorry I am, that I was qualified to give it against him.' -'How, my lord, by being a person of honour!' says the gentleman he spoke to)-'No, (replied my master, with a significant smile) not so neither, but by being unconcerned in winning it.' -And then turning short to another, 'But have you heard the news my lord? (said he) Mr-- caught his wife yesterday taking a serious walk in Kensington gardens, with the gentleman whom we all know he forbade her keeping company with, some time ago.' -A smile of general approbation encouraged him so much, that he concluded with saying, 'he wished he had himself been the happy delinquent so taken, as he doubted not but the gravest bishop on the bench would, were he to speak his mind honestly.' 
The prince had heard him without interruption; but as soon as he had ended, turning to a nobleman who stood near him, 'There can be no greater insult (said he, with a determined look and solemn accent) to a person who is appointed to put the laws of a country in execution, than 
[Page 73]
for any one, to boast of a breach of those, in his presence. For my part, if I am ever called by Providence to that station, it is my invariable resolution, that no man, how exalted soever in rank, who lives in open violation of any law, human or divine, shall ever hold employment under me, or receive countenance from me.' 
This rebuke damped my master's spirits, as it struck a reverential awe into all present. He hung down his head, and in a few moments withdrew, quite abashed. But he soon recovered, and to silence the jests of his companions, and shew that he was not to be brow-beat out of his own way, he made one with them to spend the evening at a brothel-tavern, where he gave me to a pimp, who gave me to a whore, who gave me to a bully, who gave me to a pawn-broker, who gave me to a beaux, who gave me to a tavern-keeper, who paid me into the bank, from whence I was sent, in the change of a note, to the first minister of state. 
The notion I had hitherto entertained of human politicks made me enter into this service with reluctance; but my prejudice was soon removed. My new master was just coming from his closet when I was 
[Page 74]
delivered to him: he stopped to count the money, then putting it into his purse, and turning to a clerk, who followed him with a huge bag of papers in his hand,-'I must have all these finished against morning, (said he) that I may be able to read them over, before they are signed. I know they are a great many, but the business requires dispatch; and diligence and method overcome the greatest difficulties.' -Saying this he went into his drawing-room, which was filled with several of the most eminent members of the community, who came, some to consult, some to advise, (for he refused not the advise of the meanest) and all to congratulate him on the success of his measuresWhen the business and formality of this scene were over, the company withdrew all but one gentleman, who desired some private conversation with my master. As soon as they were alone, 'I have done myself the honour to wait upon you this morning, (said the gentleman) to inform you, that there is a vacancy in my borough, and to know whom you would have me return, for as I see that all your measures are evidently calculated for the good of your country, I am determined to support you.' 

[Page 75]
'I am much obliged to your good opinion, (answered my master) but I am resolved never to interfere in matters of this nature, nor to attempt influencing the election or vote of any person, by any other means than reason: all therefore that I have to ask is, that you will return an honest man; while he approves of my conduct he will certainly support me, and no longer do I wish to be supported.' 
'What, sir, (replied the gentleman in astonishment) not desire to have your friends returned! why, sir, is it possible that you can be a stranger to the intrigues that are forming against you, by a faction, who, when they had reduced the state to a meer wreck, like a cowardly, mutinous crew, flew in the face of their master, took the boat and made their escape to shore; and now, when you have not only brought her safe into harbour, but also fitted her out for another voyage, with every prospect of success, are caballing to undermine and turn you away from the helm: not that they even pretend to arraign your conduct or skill, but just that they may have the pillaging the fruits of your labours. As this, sir, is notoriously the case, you 
[Page 76]
must excuse the warmth of my honest zeal, when I tell you, that I think you must be guilty of very strange, very blameable remisness, if you neglect any possible method of disappointing their pernicious designs.' 
'My friend, (returned my master) I am too sensible of the truth of all you say, but hope there is no necessity for my having recourse to methods which my soul disapproves. Without the assistance of any such did I (to pursue your mode of speech) first point out to our master, and the rest of the ship's company, the errors in their steering, the rocks they were ready to run upon, and the way to avoid them. Without any such did I take the helm in that dangerous time, when they fled from the wreck, and work'd her out of the breakers they left her among, and without any such will I support my place at the helm, or resign it, for in my opinion, no end can justify improper means. 
'Shall I own to you my friend, that your offer gives me pain. Do not mistake me; I am sincerely obliged to you for that good opinion which dictated it to your honest heart; but the truth is, that any member of the community's 
[Page 77]
having the power of making such an offer, proves such a degeneracy in our constitution, as threatens its overthrow in the end. A parliament should be a representative of the people; but how can it be said to be that, if the people are not at liberty to chuse whom they please to represent them; beside, such a manner of nominating disappoints the end, as well as it destroys the essence of a parliament, as it is too probable that the nominator shall stipulate conditions with his member, that may not only take away his power of voting according to the dictates of his judgment and conscience, but also enjoin such as may be directly opposite to both, and injurious, if not destructive, to that country, which he thus nominally represents. A parliament therefore to be free should be freely chosen, no man having it in his power to do more than give his own vote; and such a parliament, to keep up to the excellence of its nature in its first institution, should not continue longer than one session; but a new one be called as often as the occasions of the state should require it, once in every year at least, for so often does the interest of a nation demand, that its guardians should meet. 
[Page 78]
Such a parliament, sensible of the shortness of the duration, and nature of the tenure of their power, would take care never to act against the interest of their constituents, or if human frailty should err, their time would be too short to establish the evil, and as it would be impossible for them to be chosen again, the next parliament would remedy the mischiefSuch should a British parliament be! such I hope it will be! it is every honest Briton's duty to hope so; and not only that, but to endeavour to make it so; nor shall any act of mine ever seem to countenance a practice, that contradicts this principle. By speaking and acting in strict conformity to the dictates of my judgment and conscience, have I hitherto succeeded, contrary to the apprehensions of many, beyond the expectations of all; and the same means and none other will I ever pursue.' -'Heaven bless your pious intentions; (said the gentleman, taking his hand and kissing it in a rapture, tears of joy running down his face) heaven will bless them: happy sovereign in such a servant: happy Britain in such a guardian.' -Saying this, he took his leave of my master, who went directly to wait upon his. 

[Page 79]

CHAP. X. 

Chrysal's sentiments of his master's master, who gives a remarkable reason, for his approbation of his minister's measures and manner of doing business. The minister's charge to a general, on appointing him to a command. Chrysal enters into the service of the general. Conflict between maternal tenderness and glory, in which the latter is triumphant. Strange advice from a mother to her son. 
The first view of this august person struck me with a reverence, which I had never felt for man, before. Man may be deceived in the looks of man; but we see through all disguise, and read the real character, in the heart. Honest, benevolent, and humane, the social virtues brightened the royal, in his breast'Sire, (said my master addressing him, with the most respectful sincerity) here are the dispatches which you ordered me to draw up yesterday: since I had the honour of your commands then, I have received 
[Page 80]
some farther intelligence, that confirms the justice of your resolutions. Disappointed, but not deterred by the repulse which they justly met with from you, those people have the confidence to make a new attempt, and think to obtain by menaces, what was refused to their intreaties; but the event will convince them, that it is more difficult to a generous mind, to deny the suppliant, than repulse the insolent. Strong in the natural strength of your dominions, and stronger in the love of your people, you are able to assert your own cause, against all the powers of the world, on that element, which nature has pointed out, for the scene of your triumphs; nor will you permit any other to interfere with you, on it. All you require is a neutrality, where you are intitled to assistance. This shews your confidence in your own strength, and your contempt of them. But even this contempt will not overlook any disrespect to yourself, any partiality to your enemies. Let them either behave themselves as friends, or profess themselves foesThis choice is indifferent to you: as to their complaints, their own unjust actions are the cause of them, and when this is removed, they will cease of 
[Page 81]
course. Till then to seek a remission of the punishment, and still persist in the crime, is an insult upon justice and mercy; and for their menaces, they are beneath the notice of an answer.' 
'Be it so, (replied the reverend monarch, the indignation of his honest heart flashing from his eyes;) be it so: you speak the sentiments of my soul.' - Then turning to a favoured subject, who stood near him, 'It is a pleasure to me to transact business, with this man, (continued he) he makes me understand him, and does not perplex my soul, with a vain maze of timorous wiles, but speaks and acts with open honesty and boldness.' -The honour of this testimony warmed the heart of my master with a joy, that over-paid his labours, and added new fire to the assiduity of his soul. As soon as he went home, he found a person waiting for him whom he had appointed to meet him, on an affair of the greatest importance-'I have sent for you, my friend, (said my master) on an occasion, which, I am sensible, will give joy to your heart. You are to command a separate body of the troops, which have been sent to prosecute this necessary and just war, in America. I need not put myself, nor 
[Page 82]
you, to the pain of repeating the causes of the shameful inactivity, to give it no severer name, by which this war has been drawn into such a length; you know, and will avoid them. You will not wear out opportunity, in making unnecessary preparations for improbable occasions: you will not damp the ardour of your soldiers by delay, nor prolong a burthensome war, to enrich yourself, with the spoils of your country. You are young, active, and brave: such a commander only do British soldiers want, to lead them to victory. You have no senior, no superior here, to restrain the efforts of your spirit, by timid caution; at the same time, that your judgment will supply the place of experience, and prevent your falling into the misfortunes, which self-sufficient, brutal rashness has made so fatal to others. Your instructions are comprized in a few words,-make the best use your judgment shall direct you, of the forces entrusted to your command, to defend the property, and avenge the wrongs of your fellow-subjects; and to vindicate the honour of this abused nation I know whom I speak to, and therefore I say no more: proceed my friend, my soldier, answer my expectations, and you 
[Page 83]
will fulfill the wishes of your country.' - Saying thus, he embraced him tenderly, and as he went with him to the door, happening to look into the street, he saw a number of disabled soldiers, who had placed themselves before his window, to sollicit relief for their miseries'O, my friend, (continued he, grasping his hand) behold those victims to the unjust ambition of that enemy, against whom you go; and let the sight add the wings of an eagle to your haste, to tear down a power, which has been thus fatal to so many of your brave countrymen, to prevent any more from suffering the like evils, from the same cause. The man who does not use, to the best advantage, the means entrusted to him by his country, to destroy its enemies, is guilty of all the evils, which those enemies may afterwards do to his countryShall I beg a favour of my friend; distribute this money, (giving him an handful of Guineas) among those men, as from yourself. If it is not enough to give each a guinea, I will be your debtor for what is wanting; if it is more, keep the residue in your hands, to apply to the same use on the first occasion you meet. This much will relieve their real wants, and more might only tempt them to excess. 
[Page 84]
The invidiousness of my station makes it improper for me to do even an act of virtue, which may be mistaken for ostentation. Adieu, my friend, heaven guard you in the day of battle, and guide your sword to victory.' 
I here quitted the service of this great man, the instances of whose conduct, which I have given, make any farther character of him unnecessary. 
The regard, with which the minister had addressed himself to my present master, raised my curiosity to take an immediate view of his heart, as I knew not but I might leave his possession directly: but my fears were agreeably disappointed; for the number of guineas, given to him by my master, exceeding that of the objects to whom we were to be distributed, it fell to my lot to remain a little longer with him. 
The honour of his new command, and the confidence with which it was entrusted to him, warmed his heart with the most exalted joy. He executed his charitable commission, and then went directly home, where, bending his knee, to his beloved mother, and kissing her hand in rapture, 'O, madam, (said he) congratulate your happy son. My prayers at length are 
[Page 85]
heard, and I am blessed with an opportunity of proving to the world, my attachment to the service, my ardour for the glory, of my country: I am honoured with a separate command, in America, where heaven fires my soul with an assurance, that I shall have the happiness of crushing the injurious power of our enemies, in the very place where it first attacked my country; where it has too long triumphed in its wrongs.' 
'Heaven bless my son, (replied the matron, as soon as a gush of tears of joy and tenderness permitted her to speak) heaven guard my son, and bless his pious hopes. Let me only live to see him return with the honour of having done his duty, and I shall die contented. But why do I say this, as if my heart felt a doubt for him? my son will never fail to do his duty; he will never fall from the paths of honour, however dangerous, nor seek to colour over with specious arguments the loss of his honour. He will not make his mother ashamed of having borne him, nor bring her grey hairs with disgrace and sorrow to the grave. I know the instructions which have formed his youth, I know the principles of his heart, I know my own 
[Page 86]
blood betterBut, O my son, remember also, that prudence distinguishes true courage from rashness: that your country has now a peculiar interest in your life, and that you betray its trust, if you lose it by any unnecessary boldness. Remember your aged mother, who hangs weeping over her grave, till you return. Remember your- 
'O, my mother, no more! recal not ideas, which my present situation requires me to forget. Fear not, your son will not be a disgrace to the honest race from which he is sprung. He will do his duty as a soldier, a British soldier, and as a man, sensible of the obligations of reason and religion. Whether I shall ever have the happiness of kissing this hand again, is only known to heaven; but it is in my power to promise, that the name of your son shall never raise a blush in the face of his mother, nor his actions require the palliation of excuse from his friends. If life is to be short, let it be well filled: one day of glory is better than an age of idleness, or dishonour. Adieu, my mother; your blessing is a shield to the head, a support to the soul of your son; one tender parting more, and then my heart must be resigned 
[Page 87]
to other cares.' -'Heaven bless! heaven guard my son!' and then, as he went from her, 'O glory, what a tribute dost thou exact from wretched mortals!' 
My master paused a moment to wipe away the pious tear, which filial duty owed to such a parting, and then hasted to another scene of equal tenderness. 
Mutual merit had improved the instinctive liking of youth, between my master and a young lady, whose elevated rank and large fortune were her least recommendations, into the strongest attachment of real love. As reason could make no objection on either side, parental approbation gave its sanction to their happy choice, and had encouraged virgin timidity to appoint the day, that was to seal their bliss. Hard task upon a favour'd lover, to communicate to the chosen of his soul, the order which was to damp rising expectation, by this delay; and tear him from the instant hope of that happiness, which he had so long been suing for. But honour, and the service of his country, demanded this fiery trial, to prepare him for that height of glory, to which his soul aspired. 

[Page 88]

CHAP. XI. 

Another scene of tenderness. Love and honour in the old-fashioned, romantick style. Chrysal quits the service of the general, and after some few common changes, enters into that of honest Aminadab. Conclusion of Aminadab's agency for her Grace. 
As soon as he had recovered from the softness, into which his mother's tenderness had melted him, he went directly to his mistress. She received him with the freedom proper, in their present situation, but soon perceived an alteration in his countenance, that shewed her, his heart was not at ease. This alarmed her tender fears: 'What (said she, looking earnestly at him) can make a troubled gloom overcast that face, where hope and happiness have, for some time, brightened every smile. Can any thing have happened to disturb the prospect so pleasing to us! Can you feel a grief that you think me unworthy, or unable to share with you! it must be so: that 
[Page 89]
faint, that laboured smile betrays the sickness of your heart.' 
'O dearest wish of that heart, (replied he, taking her hand, and kissing it in extasy) how shall I merit such perfection. It is impossible: I am unworthy: but let my soul thank heaven for blessing it, with this opportunity, of rising nearer to a level with your virtues; an hope that will soften the severity of absence, and make the delay of happiness seem shorter.' 
'What canst thou mean? (said she, a jealous doubt alarming her delicacy)- Delay! -I understand thee not-I urge not.' -'Mistake not, O my love, the inconsistencies which anguish extorts from my bleeding heart-How can I say it! - Our happiness is delayed,-delayed but to be more exalted-Honour, the service of my country call.' -'And am I to be left?' -'But for a time, a little time, the pain of which shall be over-paid, by the joy of meeting, never to part againO spare my heart, restrain those tears; I am not worthy, I am not proof to such a trialThe interest, the glory of my country demand my service, and my gracious master has honoured me with a station, in which my endeavours 
[Page 90]
may be effectual, to accomplish his commands -nay, must be effectual, where love urges duty, where you are the inestimable reward.' -'If that reward is all you seek, why do you fly from it? My fortune is amply sufficient! Quit then the dangerous paths of ambition, and let us retire, and seek true happiness in content.' -'O spare my struggling heart; what can I, shall I do! -The trial is too great for human fortitude! assist me, glory! help, O my country! support me through this conflict, and I shall triumph over every other difficulty and danger. I go, my love, but to deserve thee.' -'Go! go! and heaven guide and guard your steps! (waving her hand, and turning from him to hide her tears) 'I shall no longer struggle with the sacred impulse, that leads you on, to glory.' -Then turning to him, 'But remember how you leave me! - Think what I feel, till you return! -What I must be, should'-The horror of this thought made her unable to say more: he flew into her arms, and mingling his tears with hers, as her head reclined upon his bosom, in the tenderness of a chaste embrace, 'This is too much; (said he) this is too much! -I never can repay this excess of goodness.' -Then breaking from 
[Page 91]
her arms, in a kind of enthusiasm- 'Heaven gives my soul (continued he) this foretaste of happiness, as an earnest of success; I go to certain victory: the prayers of angels must prevail.' -Saying these words, he rushed out of the room, leaving her half dead with grief. Nor was he in a much happier state: the thought of parting from her damping the ardour, that had enabled him to give that proof of his resolution, and obliging nature to pay the tribute of a flood of tears, to such a sacrifice. 
But glory and the interest of his country soon dissipated this cloud; and his mind, freed from the dread of such painful scenes of tenderness, resumed its wonted vigour, and entered upon the cares of his great undertaking, with the most indefatigable assiduity. But I continued not in his possession to see the effects of these cares; such objects as I was designed for, occurred too frequently, to the first of whom, it fell to my lot to be given. I told you, that I took a view of his heart. Never was honour more firmly established, on the principles of virtue, than there. To select any one instance would be injustice to the rest. All was uniformly great and good. 

[Page 92]
My next master was one of the pillars of military glory, who had contributed a leg, an arm, and the scalp of his head, to raise the trophies of the French, in America. Though he was destitute of almost every comfort, which nature really stands in need of, his first care, on the acquisition of such a treasure, as I was to him, was to gratify the artificial wants of luxury. He went directly to a gin shop, where he changed me for a quartern of that liquid fire; the taste of which was too pleasing to his palate, and the warmth too comfortable to his heart, for him to be satisfied with so little. Quatern followed quartern, till every sense was intoxicated, and he fell dead drunk on the floor, when his good-natured host had him kindly laid to sleep off his debauch, on the next dung-hill, first taking care to prevent his fellow-inhabitants of the streets from robbing him of the rest of his treasure, by picking his pocket of it, himselfThe scenes I saw in this service, were all of the same kind, but I was soon relieved from the pain of them, my master giving me, as a present to an officer of the customs, that very night By this faithful steward of the publick I was next morning given to the factor to a gang of smugglers, to be laid out for him 
[Page 94]
in lace, in Flanders, whither he was just going, on the affairs of his profession. With this industrious trader, I went as far as Harwich, where, while they waited for the tide, he lost me at a game of cribbidge, to a person who was going over with him. 
My new master was honest Aminadab, her Grace's agent, whom I have mentioned to you before. As soon as they had done playing, my master took a walk upon the beach with a person, who strongly resembled him, and whom I found to be his son. 'I wish (said the father) that we were safe at our journey's end; for though I have planned matters so well, that I think there can be no danger, the immense consequence at stake must make me anxious.' -'I do not understand you, (replied the son) I thought this was but such a journey as I have often known you take, and that you were going no farther than Holland, on some business of her Grace's.' -'She thinks so indeed, (returned the father) nor would I have her think otherwise as yet: but I do not design ever to see her face more. I am now, my son, arrived at the height of my wishes, being possessed of wealth, beyond my most sanguine hopes. For 
[Page 94]
you must know, that having gained the confidence of this woman, by many services, I at length suggested it to her, that the best way for her to make the most profit of the great wealth she has amassed, would be to send it to Holland, by some trusty person, who should bring it over again from thence, to save appearances, and subscribe it here, in some fictitious name, to the supplies given for the defence of Germany, now that her's, and the intrigues of some other great persons, had baffled the schemes of conomy, which the managers had attempted in vain to establish, and obliged them to come into our own termsShe took the hint, for it was a most plausible one, and immediately insisted that I should negociate the affair for her, giving me 100,000l. for that purpose. 
'This was what I wanted, and had been always scheming for, having ever remitted my money, as fast as I could make any, into Holland, that I might be able to seize such an happy opportunity as this, at a moment's warning.' -'But you cannot think, father, of staying in Holland. You will be immediately pursued thither.' -'In Holland fool! no, nor in the smoak of Europe at all! I design 
[Page 95]
to set out for Africa, without a moment's loss; and hope to be far enough out of her reach, or that of any Christian power, before she can suspect any thing of my flight. And it will heighten the pleasure of my success, to think, that while I am failing to a land of circumcision, she will sit in anxious expectation of my return.' 
'But father, is not it injustice to deceive her confidence, and rob her of so great a sum of money?' 
'Injustice fool! injustice to a christian! say such another word and I discard you, disclaim you forever! thy converse with these Gentiles has debauched thy faith; what do we mix with them; what do we serve them; what do we bear their abominations, their insults for, but to make our own advantage of them? Fools! vain presumptuous fools! to imagine that any benefits, any gratitude can bind us to them; or change the innate hatred of our souls, to a sect, that has been the cause of our dispersion and ruin. But to silence thy weak scruples about injustice, with a word, have I not the authority of our holy scripture, the example of our great prophet Moses himself, for what I do, who borrowed the wealth of 
[Page 96]
the Egyptians without a design of ever returning them, to pay the children of Israel, for the labours they had been put to by their oppressors, and enrich them when they should arrive at the land of promiseAnd is not this my case? have I not laboured hourly for this Gentile woman without payment! did she not join to defraud our people of a greater sum than this, to which my mite was added too, under the pretence of procuring us a settlement! and did she not refuse to return it, when the attempt failed of success. What then is this, but a just retaliation? a fulfilling of our law, that says, An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth? And do I not want her wealth to make my settlement happy, in the land of my fore-fathers?' -The son had too high a reverence for the judgment of his father, to offer any reply, but yielded to the conviction of arguments so conclusive. By this time the wind and tide served for us, we arrived in Holland without any thing remarkable, except I should take notice to you of the sordid hypocrisy of my master as such, who, not to violate the customs of his race, made a pretence of poverty, to get his passage without expence. 

[Page 97]

CHAP. XII. 

They arrive at the Hague. Political conversation between a Dutchman and a Jew. They differ in opinion. Aminadab leaves his friend Van Hogan in great distress. 
As soon as we arrived at the Hague, my master sent his son to prepare for their immediate departure, while he went himself for a moment, to speak to one of the principal members of the states. 
There was little ceremony between a Dutchman and a Jew, but entering directly upon business, 'My friend Aminadab, (said his mightiness) I am glad to see you; I hope you have brought us good news; and that there is a stop put to the insolence of those English pirates, who, in a manner, block up our ports, and have almost ruined our trade.' 
'Really my friend Van Hogan, (replied my master) I am sorry that I cannot give you any satisfactory account of that affair. For such is the perverseness of the 
[Page 98]
people in power there at present, that they will not listen to any arguments.' - Will they not take money?' -'No, indeed; nor does the boldest of us all know how to offer it with safety, it was rejected with such indignant rage the last time; though in truth the offer was a tempting one. I have seen the day, and that not very long since, when half the sum would have done twice as much. But matters are most strangely altered of late. They have got a manager, who neither drinks, nor games, keeps running horses, nor whores, nor lives above his private fortune, and therefore has not such pressing demands for money, as used to make our negociations go on so smoothly with others formerly.' 
'Death! what shall we do? is the whole court corrupted by this example? are they all infected with such a strange madness?' 
'No, it is not gone so far as that yet; and it is to be hoped, that the example of a few will not be able to do so much; and that when the novelty of this humour wears off a little, it will go out of fashion insensibly, and things return to their old course. This is supposing the worst, that the engines, now at work 
[Page 99]
to overturn this new set, should miscarry.' 
'But what must we do in the mean time? We shall be ruined before that may happen! we must declare war, and do ourselves justice.' 
'But may not the remedy there be worse than the disease? Are your affairs in such a condition as to entitle you to take such a step? Consider what a mighty naval force they have at this time! consider how you will be able to resist it.' 
'That is the thing, the only thing that has kept us quiet so long! But something must be done; another Amboyna affair, or some such stroke must bring us satisfaction, and revenge too.' 
'Take care, my friend; be cautious what you do: this is no time for such strokes; nor are the present governors such people as those, who suffered them so tamely: they will be apt to return the stroke, in a manner that may be attended with consequences too dreadful to be hazarded. I hate those haughty Islanders, as much as you; except some few particulars, the sense of the whole nation has ever been against us; nor would they suffer us among them now, but that we have availed ourselves so well of the favour 
[Page 100]
of those few, as to get the command of almost all the money in the kingdom into our own hands, so that now they dare not provoke us too far; though I own I do suspect that the design of the present rulers, is to get out of our power as soon as this war is over, if our old friends do not counter-act their designs.' 
'But all this time this talking signifies nothing to our affairs; what do they say to them? What reasons do they give for encouraging these outrages, in breach of treaties, and contempt of justice?' 
'In truth, my friend, a great many, that are more just than agreeable; more easily exclaimed against than refuted. In answer to your alledging the faith of treaties, they insist that they strictly observe the sense and spirit of them, while you only cavil about the words, it being absurd to think that any nation should bind up its own hands, in the manner you pretend; or even if that was the meaning of the treaty, at the time when it was made, that your abuse of the indulgence given by it, makes it necessary to retract it now: and they express the most indignant surprize at your insisting so strongly upon one article, which at 
[Page 101]
best is but doubtful, and would be in itself absurd, in the sense you wrest it to, while you break through so many, the meaning of which you do not even pretend to dispute.' 
'Then we will dispute no longer about them; we will enforce their observation, by the same methods that originally obtained them.' -'Aye, if that could be; but my friend, I cannot flatter you; I am afraid those means are out of your power; you were then really mighty states, respectable for your power, and dreadful for your valour: but the case is now altered, I need not say how.' 
'Ingrateful English! to forget how we rescued them from popery and slavery, but the other day; had it not been for us they would, at best, have been but slaves to France.' 
'The very charge they make against you, who, they say, could never have resisted the power of Spain, or established your liberties, if their queen Elizabeth had not hearkened to the cries of your poor, distressed states. As for the affair you mention, though they do not deny the benefit, they take off from the obligation, by attributing it to self-interested motives, as they say, you were convinced 
[Page 102]
that if any thing happened to them, you must sink of course: beside, that you have been amply paid for this, by the immense expence of blood and treasure with which they established your barrier, in the late wars, which they evidently entered into on your accounts, to the neglect of their own interest. 
'In a word, my friend, there is so much truth in what they say, that I would not advise you to insist upon these points any more.' -'Confound the points! and the memories that rip them up so! What shall we do? I myself lost a ship last week, worth 50,000 ducats; though all the precautions possible were taken; as sending her papers by another ship, supplying her with false bills of lading, false clearances, false consignments; in short, every thing that human art could devise.' 
'And I know she was as well sworn for, to prevent her being condemned, as human conscience could swear; but nothing could elude the captors, or deceive or influence the judges; but was the not ensured?' 
'Not a ducat; there is nothing to be got by ensuring, except the ships are to be cast away: O my ship! my ship! I will have 
[Page 103]
war.' -'And then all your ships go at once.' -'I am distracted! what shall we do?' 
'My friend, the best, the only advice I can give you, is to put a stop to this trade, and open your eyes to your true interest. I hate the English as much as you possibly can; but that should not make me ruin myself to be revenged on them: they are your only natural allies; they first delivered, they still sustain you, nor can you support the very name of an independant state without them. Provoke them not, therefore, too far; I wonder how they have borne so much already; preserve a fair neutrality; they despise your assistance, and desire no more: nor by your avarice force them to measures, that must end in your ruin. If you break with them, whom will you apply to? The French have given you many proofs, that they wait only for an opportunity to enslave you: Spain has at length learned its own interest, and will not break with the only power, whose friendship can be of real service to it: and this very war gives a sufficient demonstration of Austrian faith and gratitude. 

[Page 104]
'This is the obvious situation of things, and must strike a person at the first view: but a moment's thought will shew them, even in a stronger light. For to grant that France and Austria both may be sincere in their professions to you; does not reason shew you the imprudence of trusting to promises, which it is more than probable they will not be able to perform. For if you will but divest yourself of passion and prejudice for a moment, you will see that the measures entered upon, and the means used to carry them on, by the English at this time, must, in all human appearance, disappoint the schemes of their enemies, and retort upon their own heads, the ruin they meditated for others. Indeed the prospect is such, that it is impossible to say where things will end: every interior fund is exhausted; every external resource cut off; their own trade is absolutely ruined; the treasures of Spain, which supplied them in their last wars, are no longer at their command; so that I can foresee nothing less than their becoming bankrupts, not only to themselves, but also to every foreign state, and individual, whose avarice of present gain has made them supply their wants. 

[Page 105]
'Nor is this distress the effect of chance, or of an unfortunate campaign, which the success of another, or some lucky hit may restore. It is the natural consequence of a system of measures, plan'd with judgment, and prosecuted with vigour, by a minister who will not fail to improve it to the most solid advantage. And this I say, not solely from my own opinion. You know I have had connections with persons able to give me the best information, by the assistance of which I have traced the progress of these affairs with astonishment: and therefore, as England has thus at length shewn a superiority in council, the usual resource of patching up a good peace, at the end of an unsuccessful war, seems also to be precluded from them. 
'As for the house of Austria, it has ever been a dead weight upon its friends, though its infatuated ingratitude to England, which had been in a manner its sole support, for near a century, will, probably, prevent any other state from undertaking such a burthen, so that it must sink back, into its original obscurity and barbarism. 
'Thus you see, my friend, that depending upon France is leaning on a broken 
[Page 106]
reed, and trusting to Austria, going for shelter under a falling wall: what then can you do if the English should take offence at your behaviour, and exert that power which is in their hands, to punish your avaritious partiality to their enemies? 
'Your power is, in every instance, contemptible; your navy is gone absolutely to decay; your land forces are filled with old men and children; your officers, who might have served you, have been obliged to enter into other services for bread, to make room for ignorant, indolent, pusillanimous burghers, who barter their votes for such a share of the spoils of the publick. Your finances are in the lowest state of embarrassment; your publick spirit, your valour, your virtue, all swallowed up by selfishness, and sordid love of gain; every thing in the situation, that seems to invite ruin, if it is not speedily prevented; and that can possibly be done no other way, than as I have mentioned; for as I have said, and must again repeat, things are now on a footing there, that you do not seem to be properly aware of. The people are sensible of their own strength; their governors exert it properly, and there is a 
[Page 107]
mutual confidence between them, that in a manner ensures success to their attempts. Consider this fair, this friendly representation of real facts, and you will soon see the improbability of their bearing with you any longer; or suffering you to defeat the end of their military efforts, by carrying on the trade of their enemies, and so enabling them to continue the war.' 
'Is it come to this? Are the friends on whom we depended most turned against us? Are you an advocate for our enemies, and would perswade us to give up the most advantageous branch of trade we have!' 
'Why will you let your passion blind you thus? I have told you before, and I repeat it again, that of all christians I hate the English most, because they resemble us least; as I love the Dutch most as you come nearest to ourselves, both in practice and profession. But my passions never blind me! and therefore I speak the dictates of reason; I plead not for them, nor will I flatter you.' 
'Notwithstanding all their boasted power, we have one stroke left to humble them; and we will make it directly; we will draw all our money out of their funds.' 

[Page 108]
'Will you so? at a third part loss? O, Moses! what fools are those christians? Do you not see that even this stroke, as you call it, is guarded against? that apprehensive of such an attempt, they have lowered the particular funds, in which your money chiefly lies, so far, that the loss of selling out now would be intolerable. And whose is this money which you would draw out? the property of private people; absurd thought! if it was the money of the publick, it would not be strange to see it sacrificed to private interest, but there is no instance in all your story of private property being given up voluntarily for the redress of publick wrongs.' 
'Friend Hogan, I am in haste; my affairs call me elsewhere; when I shall see you again is uncertain; but my regard would not permit me to miss this opportunity of giving you my advice, which I know to be of importance to you. I can no longer undertake your affairs in London; nor would I have another amuse you, with hopes that must deceive you in the end: while it was in my power to serve you I did; I abused their confidence; I betrayed their secrets to you: but I can do it no longer; nor can any 
[Page 109]
other to effect. Measures, as well as men, are changedAdieu.' 
With these words my master went to seek his son, leaving his friend Van Hogan in the highest distraction, between the opposite impulses of the strongest passions that could agitate his soul, avarice and fear. 
CHAP. XIII. 

Aminadab bids adieu to her Grace, and sails with his son for Africa. Chrysal remains with a Dutch banker. The principles and conscience of a good Dutchman. Chrysal is sent into Germany. His opinion of the Dutch. 
The young Israelite met his father punctually, and gave him such an account of his preparations for their flight, that Aminadab blessed the God of his fathers, and to compleat the fulness of his harvest with whatever gleanings he could pick up, he went directly among his Dutch friends, and in pious imitation of the example he had quoted before, borrowed if not jewels of gold and jewels of silver, as much coined gold and silver as he could, and then 
[Page 110]
going with his son to the sea-side, they embarked for their native country, in all the exultation of successful villainy. 
But I went not with them; my British shape being of more value in Europe than were he was going, my master left me with his banker, in exchange for the more fashionable coin of Spain, which neighbourhood made better known thereMy Hebrew master had scarce left the banker, into whose hands he had given me, when in came his Belgick friend Van Hogan, all aghast at the news he had received from him, and some thing else, which had come to his knowledge since. 
'O, Mynheer! (said he) we are all blown up and undone! the flood is pouring in upon us.' -'What is the matter now Mynheer, (replied the banker) that throws you into this strange consternation? the worms have not destroyed the dams? nor an earthquake swallowed up the Spice-Islands?' 
'Worse, worse if possible, than even these! Those stubborn, proud, self-sufficient English have refused to release our ships that were taken carrying ammunition and provisions, to their enemies, so that we are like not only to lose those ships, but also the advantage of the trade for the future. 
[Page 111]
What can be done, to divert this blow?' - 'Really, Mynheer, I cannot tell; the case is bad enough to be sure; but it is no more than was to be expected; it was not to be thought that they should always remain such passive fools, as tamely to look on, while we supplied their enemies with necessaries to carry on the war against them, without endeavouring to put a stop to us.' 
'Death! I am almost mad to hear you talk thus! but say what you will, my Province shall never bear it! Why, I have received advice this minute, that all our ships which were freighted for their enemies will be condemned; and that they are as little moved at our menaces, as they were at our intreaties. If this continues, we shall not have a ship left in the Texel.' 
'Nay, mine shall escape, I am resolved.' -'What will you do to save them?' - 'Not run them into the danger, Mynheer.' -'How, give up the trade?' -'Most certainly; since it cannot be carried on with safety any longer; and glad that I have come off so well.' -'I do not understand you!' -'You are too warm, Mynheer; too sanguine in the pursuit of your projects; while the surprize or fright of the late managers in England, gave me reason 
[Page 112]
to think, that they would not venture to interrupt us, I carried on as large a trade, in this way, as any other: but, as soon as I saw the people recover their senses, and the reins put into other hands, I made a timely retreat with what I had acquired.' -'And what do you intend to do now?' -'Keep fair with those whom I can get nothing by breaking with, and throw my business into another channel; by which management I have already succeeded so far, that I have got the British remittances to the parties engaged in the present war.' -'Why, there may be something in this; and if one scheme fails, I believe I will even follow your example.' -'And pray what is that, Mynheer?' - 'No more than the old cry of pyracy; but this is so laid that it can hardly fail of success: we have bribed the captain of an English privateer to rifle a ship, that we prepare properly for the purpose, and then to come into the way of one of our men of war, which is to take him and bring him in, where he is to insult the government, and vindicate his outrages on the pretence of authority.' 
'And, pray Mynheer, what can you propose from all this, beside having the foolish villain hanged?' 

[Page 113]
'Why the English, in detestation of such villainy, will give up the point of searching our ships, when they see their authority abused in such a manner, and so we shall gain our end that way; or if they do not, our own people will be so enraged at the insult and injustice (as they will believe) of their proceeding, that they will immediately declare war against them; and so we shall obtain it the other. The pyrate, when he has served our turn, we are to let escape: and it will be no great loss to the world if half a score of his crew are hanged.' 
'A very just and publick-spirited scheme indeed! to hang wretches for a crime you hire them to commit, and engage your country in a war that must be its ruin, to support your pretensions to an unjustifiable trade. 
'Mynheer Van Hogan, I am a Dutchman as well as you, and attached to my interest, as every Dutchman is; but that is, when my interest is not destructive of itself in the end, as I must tell you, I think your present scheme is, in which I will be no farther concerned, than to try to prevent the evil consequences of it, to the state: the rest may lie upon your own head. 

[Page 114]
'Any thing in the way of trade, my conscience complies with without scruple; I can take every oath that every officer of the customs in Europe can impose, and not think myself bound by any of them, farther than they agree with my interest; I can supply the enemies of my country with arms, to fight against ourselves, provided they pay a price extraordinary, that will defray my taxes toward the support of the war; I can receive circumcision, stroke down my beard, and swear by Mahomed, to avoid a tax at Smyrna; I can trample upon the cross, deny Christ, and call myself a Dutchman to obtain leave to trade in Japan; but I will not cut the dykes to drown a rat at home. 
'I am not at leisure to say more on this subject, as I am this minute going to remit a subsidy to one of the German princes, whom England keeps in pay, to fight for their own preservation, from the same princples, that it has long fought our battles, and would again, if we did not provoke it too far. And when this is done, I am to meet the French ambassador to settle terms with him, for remiting the money, that is to pay the army, which fights against the allies of England. 
[Page 115]
So that you see I am engaged, as you may be, if your warmth, unnatural to the cool temper of our country, will let you open your eyes to your true interest.' 
Mynheer Van Hogan departed, rather silenced than satisfied, with the reasoning of my master, who sat down to negociate the hire of a principality, with as much unconcern, as he would that of a turnip field; and bought and sold the inhabitants with as great indifference, as he would have bargained for a cask of herrings; in which service, it fell to my lot to be employed. 
Greatly as I must have edified by the examples and principles, mercantile, moral, civil, and religious, of my late master, I must own, there was something so grossly reprobate to every sense of real virtue, even in him, that I was pleased to leave him, and indeed, to be candid, the country in general; where the very profession of virtue was despised, their only pretension to it, being the absence of one vice, hypocrisy, which they rejected, as an unnecessary incumberance, and acted their grossest enormities, without reserve, or appearance of shame. 

[Page 116]
I now entered on the great theatre of the world, where the sovereign actors gave a dignity to the scenes; and the concerns of individuals were overwhelmed, and lost, in the confusion of nations. 
CHAP. XIV. 

Chrysal's remarks on military glory in his journey. Two strange passengers taken into the boat. National prejudice and pride break out in persons not likely to be suspected for such passions. 
While I was travelling to my destined master, I had frequent opportunities of seeing the fruits of military glory, in the misery of the people, and desolation of the countries through which I went. 
Such scenes as these cannot be made known by description to an inhabitant of this happy Island, whose situation defends it from the sudden inroads of foreign enemies, as its natural naval strength does from the more deliberate devastations of regular invasion; and the excellency of its 
[Page 117]
laws, from the yet severer outrages of arbitrary power. 
But amid all this happiness, such is the insatiate ingratitude of the human heart, that not content with these blessings, you are ever complaining, ever grasping at more, till, in the end, you lose the enjoyment of what you possess, insensible, that your severest wants would be abundance to millions, who dare not even utter a complaint. 
It has been said, that there is a certain degree of madness requisite to make a great man; that is, to enable humanity to conquer its first principle of self-preservation, to slight the most terrifying dangers, and seek the most severe evils that interrupt its pursuit of an imaginary good. 
The lust of power, and the intoxication of glory, may seem to animate the great to this contradiction of nature, but madness alone can support the mass of mankind through it, who are insensible to these fantastick motives, or at least can not delude themselves with the faintest hope of ever obtaining them. 
Of this I saw many instances in my journey through the countries, that were the scene of the present war; but one more particularly that happened in one of the 
[Page 118]
Dutch travelling boats, early in our journey, made the strongest impression on me, and deserves relation mostThere had been an obstinate battle fought some time before between the parties then at war, in which the loss was so severe, and so equal on both sides, that as soon as night covered their retreat, each withdrew, concluding itself vanquished, though next morning, when they came to a better knowledge of each others situation, they both claimed the victory, while neither thought proper to return to the charge to assert that claim. 
This uncertainty aggravated the misery of the unhappy wretches, who were left wounded on the field of battle, as it prevented their receiving relief, either from friend or enemy. However, as this dreadful scene was acted in the neighbourhood of a neutral city, as soon as the first terrors of it were a little cooled, the common feelings of humanity moved some of the inhabitants to go, and try to relieve as many of the deserted sufferers, as had not perished for want of more timely assistance, without distinction, or respect to any party. 
Two of those victims of ambition, who had been enemies in the day of battle, but had since founded a friendship on their 
[Page 119]
common calamity, having been supported by the same charity, and cured of their wounds in the same bed, were now striving to get the mangled remains of their mutilated carcasses, carried like other worn-out instruments of the war, to their respective countries. In their journey they happened to be brought to the water-side, where we had just taken boat, where they begged in the most moving terms to be admitted, but were absolutely refused, till one of the passengers, an English gentleman, took compassion on their distress, and paid their fare. 
We were all seated in the equality usual in such vehicles, in which, as in the grave, all conditions are thrown promiscuously together, when the conversation happening to turn upon the war, which then raged in most parts of Europe, and every one speaking variously, as prejudice or opinion dictated, the Englishman chanced to say, that he thought such a combination of the greatest powers of Europe, as, at that time, laboured to oppress the king of Bulgaria, was, to divest it of the intricacies of ambition, and bring politicks to the rule of reason and justice, the most injurious, and even base abuse of power, that could be instanced in the christian history; 
[Page 120]
and he hoped, and indeed doubted not, but that glorious prince, and the bravery and attachment of his subjects to his cause, that is, really to their own cause, would rise superior to all the attempts of his enemies, and retort upon them the stroke which they had perfidiously aimed at his ruin, to their dishonour and confusion. 
The rage into which this reflection, so injurious to the glory of the Grand Monarque, threw one of the passengers, who thought it levelled particularly at him, though no names had been mentioned, was so great that he could not suppress it, till the gentleman should conclude; but interrupting him, without the least respect to his personal obligation, for he was one of the two whom I mentioned, to have been admitted into the boat on his charity, 'What do you mean sir, (said he) by saying that this war will end in the dishonour of the king of France? Was not his motive for entering into it the most disinterested and glorious? to support the rights of sovereignty, and bring vassals to a proper sense of duty and obedience? And has not the success been answerable to the greatness of his designs? Have not his forces been every where victorious by land and sea?' 

[Page 121]
The tone of voice with which these words were spoken drew the eyes of all present upon the speaker, a little, old, withered creature, who wanted both his legs, and scarce seemed to have skin enough, not to say flesh, to cover the remainder of his shattered bones, and keep them together. But his spirit supplied all these disadvantages, and enabled him to raise himself upon his stumps, and cast a look of the most ferocious rage around him, as if he meant to destroy whoever dared to dispute his words. 
But his triumph was not long; his fellow-traveller immediately taking him up with equal fury, 'How, (said he) the army of France ever victorious over Bulgaria! what assurance can dictate such a falsehood? where have they obtained one victory? where have they escaped defeat, except when the superiority of their numbers has exceeded all proportion! and even then, their slain have generally equalled the whole amount of the forces; whom they fought with; what armies have they lost already? how few of those which remain will ever return to their native home, even in the wretched condition that you do?' 

[Page 122]
These last words raised a general laugh at the person who spoke them, he being, if possible, in a more maimed and helpless condition, than the one to whom they were addressed, having lost both his arms, and one of his eyes. 
He perceived the motive of their mirth, and submitting to the rebuke with a manly fortitude of mind, 'I see gentlemen (said he) that you laugh at my mentioning the wretchedness of any other living creature with contempt, who am such a sufferer myself! but what absurdities will not passion hurry men into? and how could human patience bear to hear this Frenchman boast of the victories of his monarch, whose forces I myself have assisted to rout, at every place where I have ever met them.' 
'You rout the forces of my master; (replied the other) my master's forces would eat up all your master's subjects, for a breakfast.' -'I do not deny their number nor their appetites, (returned the Bulgarian) they leave sufficient evidence of both wherever they go: cruelty and rapine lead forth their armies; famine and desolation mark their marches; shake not your head at me, nor lift your hand, as you regard your life; else, loath as I 
[Page 123]
am to make misery ridiculous by a quarrel between two such wretches as we are, though I have not an hand to strike, with my foot will I spurn out your life, and trample on your carcass.' 
'Morblieu! compare the mighty Monarque of France with a little German king.' 
'You mistake me greatly; I never meant to compare them: the greatness of your monarch I do not deny, were it not abused to purposes that make it a dishonour to him, and a misfortune to his subjects; whereas our sovereign is the father of his people, and never exerts his power, but to their advantage. 
'Gentlemen, you must forgive my warmth; any thing against myself I can despise; but my king, my father, I can not, I will not hear spoken of with disrespect, while I have even a voice left to assent his cause: I have fought for him; I have fought with him; for he does not sit rioting in the debaucheries of a court, while his subjects are encountering hardships and dangers to gratify his vanity or revenge. His quarrels are the quarrels of his people; and he fights their battles with them; and the only regret I feel for the loss of my limbs is, that I 
[Page 124]
can employ them no longer in his service, for which I would lay down my life this minute with joy, could it gain him the least advantage, or was necessary to prove my attachment to him. 
'But since I can no longer have the happiness of being of service to him, all I have now to do is, to retire to my native country, where his paternal care has made such a provision for my wants, that I shall wear out my days in content, without ever having my prayers for his welfare, and success, disturbed by one repining wish, one just complaint. 
'But ask this vain glorious knight errant if he can say so? did he fight for the preservation of his family, his country, and his religion, as I did? did he fight under the conduct of his sovereign, who personally provided for the necessities, the comforts of his men, as I did? is he sure of a peaceful retreat at home, safe from the additional distress of want, as I am? 
'Not at all; he fought for he knew not what, he knew not whom. At a distance from his king, who was insensible of his dangers, and revelled in delicacies, while his subjects, the victims of his ambition, were destitute of the common, indispensible 
[Page 125]
necessaries of nature; nor has he any other hope of prolonging his miserable days when he gets home, but the wretch's last resource of begging, in a country so exhausted by the vain tyranny of his master, that charity is almost an ineffectual virtue, for want of means for its exertion.' -All present were struck with the force with which the soldier delivered his sentiments, nor did his antagonist attempt any reply; but opening their common wallet, in which the Bulgarian carried all their wealth, he took out what belonged to himself, saying, with a sneer, 'that since his feet were so good, he might hereafter use them instead of hands, for he would feed him no longer.' 
This poor-spirited sarcasm was received by the person to whom it was applied, with a smile of disdain, though it raised the idle laughter of the greater part present. But the Englishman received it in another manner, for drawing out his purse, he took twenty ducats, and putting them himself into the pocket of the Bulgarian; 'Accept of these my brother soldier, (said he) to make your journey into your native country more convenient, where you cannot meet more tender regard from your sovereign and country, than your 
[Page 126]
sensible attachment to them merits. As far as I shall go your way I will take care of you myself, and that will defray the expence of the rest of your journey with comfort.' 
CHAP. XV. 

The history of the Bulgarian soldier. Chrysal is carried to his destined master. 
The Bulgarian was unable to express his gratitude for this charity, the manner of presenting which doubled the obligation of it. But the big tear that stole in silence down his manly cheek, as he bowed his head to his benefactor, spoke it with a more affecting eloquence than any words could do; and influenced every person present so much in his favour, so as to make them vie in offering him their assistance. 
As soon as he recovered utterance, 'Such (said he) is the noble benevolence that distinguishes the sons of liberty! such the generosity of heart, that always extends the ready hand of a Britain, with 
[Page 127]
relief to the distressed. May heaven preserve to your happy nation the blessings which enable it to exert its virtues, to make them a blessing to all who want their assistance. And though envy may malign, and ingratitude return benefits with evil, beneficence finds its reward in its own exertion, in the certainty of a retribution from those treasures which never fail.' 
The turn of this soldier's discourse, and particularly the last part of it, seemed so much above his present appearance, that it raised a curiosity in his benefactor to ask him, 'If he had been bred to arms, or how long he had professed the military life, and in what station.' 
'O, sir, (replied he with a sigh, that seemed to tear his heart your question recalls to my memory, scenes that I would willingly forget for ever, and obliges me to relate such things as would draw tears from Tartars, Pandours, or the crueller soldiers of the king of FranceI was not bred to arms, nor have I followed the military profession long, or in any other rank than that which rage and despair first placed me in, when I offered myself to my sovereign to repel the invaders, and revenge the desolation of my 
[Page 128]
bleeding country. My unhappy story is no more than this. 
'I am a native of Bulgaria, the son of a minister of the gospel, who observing a desire of knowledge in my youth, encouraged and improved it, by his own precepts and example, and led my studious mind through the sublimest paths of science. 
'As soon as he saw my resolutions sufficiently established to be proof against the levity of youth, and temptations of sense, he yielded to my entreaties, and I was admitted into the sacred order of which he was a member, and made the perfection of human wisdom, the practice of piety and virtue under the direction of the divine word, the business of my happy life. Happy indeed then! but now the recollection of that happiness aggravates my present misery, in the irrecoverable loss of it, almost to despair. 
'As the religion of the benign redeemer of mankind does not enjoin impossibilities, by requiring us to eradicate passions, which are the essence of our nature, and whose indulgence, under the direction of reason and virtue, is the end of our creation, and the basis of our being, 
[Page 129]
and fulfills the first divine command, by continuing our species, and encreasing the number of his adorers, I obeyed the impulse of virtuous love, and married the daughter of a neighbouring divine, who compleated to me, as I vainly thought, the sum of human happiness, by a numerous offspring, which grew up on the knees of their aged grandfire, my father; now become too feeble for the active duties, while my labours supplied the necessaries of life to my contented family, in which I thus stood the happy center of filial and paternal love. 
'In this blissful state did I advance toward heaven, when envy of his glory, and fear of his virtues brought this destructive war upon the dominions of our sovereign. O, my father! my children! my wife! in one day did I lose you all. These eyes beheld my habitation reduced to ashes, my children massacred in the wantonness of cruelty, in despight of the prayers of my aged father, whose snow-white hairs, whose whole appearance would have struck the ruthless hearts of the ancient heathen Gauls with reverence, in despight of the cries of my beauteous wife, who both begged to draw their fury on themselves, from the defenceless 
[Page 130]
innocents; but all in vain; the murderers, deaf to their cries and intreaties, insensible to the beauty of the babes, who stood smiling at the swords that hung over their heads, first butchered them as in sport, then abused the person of my wife to death, and mangled my father's breathless body, whose tender heart, the grief of such a sight had burst, while I unhappier far than any, stood looking on bound to a tree, with my jaws distended with the head of a spear, and my cheeks cut open thus from ear to ear, a bible being placed before me, and a French priest standing by, encouraging their cruelty, as meritorious against hereticks, and insultingly bidding me, preach now to my congregation, at the same time refusing me the release of death, which I besought by all the signs despair could suggest, and making them leave me naked, and whipped till my body was all one wound, to perish by famine and grief. 
'But heaven had ordained otherwise for me; some of my neighbours who had escaped their fury, came, as soon as night favoured their fears, to learn our fate, and offer any assistance in their power. They unbound me; they buried 
[Page 131]
the remains of my slaughtered family, and forced me from the grave, to their retreat in the woods, where they healed my wounds, and strove to comfort my distress. But all their arguments would have been too weak to make me suffer life, had not a desire of revenge taken possession of my soul, and silenced every other thought. 
'As soon as I had recovered strength, I hasted to the army of my sovereign, where I threw myself at his feet, and told him all my distress. He heard me with pity; he shed tears at my sad story, and raising me with his own hand, 'Be comforted my brother (said the mighty monarch to his meanest subject) be comforted, the losses of the just will be repaid in heaven; there thy happy family expect thine arrival; there thy virtues will be rewarded, thy joys compleat; when the evils of this world, which endure but for a moment, shall be at an end. The horrors of war agree not with the innocence of your past life, or the humane tenderness of your disposition, and would but aggravate your griefs, by the unhappily unavoidable repetition of like scenes of ruin. Retire therefore to my capital, where all the comforts of life shall be provided for you, to alleviate 
[Page 132]
your distress, while your prayers assist us in the day of battle.' 
'I heard his words with reverence, but his virtue was too sublime for my imitation. I fell again at his feet, and wringing my hands, 'O sir, (said I) this goodness is too great for man; alas I am unable to obey its dictates; my soul languishes for vengeance; O, bear with human infirmity and permit me to fight under thy command. Heaven heard not my prayers, or it would have prevented my ruin; let me then have recourse to other methods for redress; let me contribute my poor help to thy victories, to the deliverance of my country; I die this moment if my prayer is refused.' 
'Be then my companion in this just war; (said my sovereign, raising me again) and since they sacred function must not be disgraced with any other rank, fight by my side, and lead me to success.' 
'From that day have I followed his steps in the field of battle, at an awful distance; and been witness to all the wonders of his conduct and valour; till in the late action a cannon shot took off both my arms, as I had the honour of holding my own horse for him to mount, his having been 
[Page 133]
killed under him as I fought by his side. 
'He expressed concern at my misfortune, and commanded me to retire to his own tent; but an Austrian hussar; the moment after, cut me down with his sabre, though in the unpremeditated instinct of self-preservation I had held up both my bleeding stumps to ward the blow. 
'Here I lay among my fellow sharers in the common calamity, in submissive expectation of the stroke of fate, from the horses feet, or the pillagers of the field. But heaven had otherwise ordained; and after two days weltering in my blood, I was relieved, and recovered by charity, to the condition in which you see me, and am now striving to go, and avail myself of my master's humane offer, which your benevolence enables me to do with comfort. 
'This fellow-sufferer, whose arrogance first prompted me to speak, has been a sharer with me also, in the charity which relieved us; where our common calamity created a kind of friendship between us, and our necessities suggested it to us, to combine the remains of our limbs, for mutual assistance, he preparing our victuals, 
[Page 134]
and feeding me, while I have carried, not only our poor baggage, but him also, upon my back. 
'But that alliance is at an end; not because the relief which you so generously have bestowed upon me, may seem to free me from the necessity of his assistance, for I must beg your leave to divide it with him, as half is sufficient for me, but that my soul abhors the principles which first led him into this distress, and which even such sufferings cannot shew the impious absurdity of; and disclaims connection with the enemy of my gracious sovereign, who would thus malign his glory, when he cannot deny, nor longer resist the virtues, that have raised it.' 
By this time we arrived at the place, where I was to be delivered to the minister of my destined master, who immediately carried me to him. 

[Page 135]

CHAP. XVI. 

How Chrysal found his master employed. The grandeur and happiness of absolute power. His cares for the augmentation, and support of his revenues. His rage at the insolence of liberty, punctuality to his engagements, and resolutions to maintain the consequence of his rank. 
We found him busied in reviewing some new levies, which he had just raised, to hire out to the best bidder of the parties then engaged in war, without ever examining the justice of the cause, or considering any other motive or consequence, than just the immediate price he was to receive, out of which he bounteously allowed them a pittance to support the lives so useful to him. 
As soon as the men were ordered to their quarters, his highness retired with his minister, who presenting the bag in which we were, with a bent knee, 'The subsidy, may it please your most serene highness, from England,' (said he)-'It is well, 
[Page 136]
(replied the sovereign) but upon what terms?' -'The same your highness had last year.' -'No more! they shall not have my men! I can have more elsewhere! France offers better.' -'Then I must return this money, please your highness.' -'Return it? no; for what?' -'If your highness does not like the terms, you will not keep the money I presume.' - 'Fool, but I will! such laws may bind you subject wretches; but sovereign princes are above them; laws are not made for us.' - 'I humbly implore your highness's pardon for my ignorance; then you will give those troops to France.' -'Yes, when France pays me for them.' -'But in the mean time, as England has already payed your highness, they will depend upon them, and consequently suffer by the disappointment.' -'Then let them prize my friendship properly another time; I am not obliged to support kings upon their thrones for nothing; I may invade as well as guard against invasion. They shall know whom they dare offend.' 
'Something has provoked your highness's wrath, which I am afraid my ignorance should aggravate.' 
'I will teach the respect that's due to sovereignty; I am not king of England, 
[Page 137]
curbed in my will, and limited in power; my subjects are my slaves; they dare not hink of any other law, beside my pleasure. Death! can you think it! my minister at the court of England writes me word, that a base, plebeian merchant has had the ssurance to demand payment for the goods he sent me last year, for the support and splendor of my court, and on its not being deducted from the subsidy, to refuse supplying me this year, and even to threaten complaining to their parliament. 
'Now judge you if a sovereign prince whose forces are their security in time of danger, can brook such insolence; and to conclude the whole; What did the English minister say, when my minister remonstrated with him upon this affair, but that by the laws of England no man could be compelled to part with his property against his will, or hindered to complain, if he thought himself aggrieved: and that the laws were sacred, and must not be infringed. Think now if I can with honour keep an alliance with such people, till I have received satisfaction: I, whose subjects have no property nor laws, but my will, to be treated in such a manner, by a vile trader: it is not to be borne.' 

[Page 138]
'I am very sorry to hear of this affair, and particularly at this time, because if your highness should break with the English now, when they think they want your men, they may be provoked never to deal with your highness for them another time, when they have no other occasion for them, only to do your highness a service.' 
'Why there may be something in that, and therefore, if they will send me the merchandize I want, and raise the subsidy, perhaps I may not refuse them the succours they desire.' 
'How much does your highness require to have the subsidy raised?' 
'I have not thought of that yet. But surely they cannot be so unreasonable as to expect my men at the same rate, now in time of danger, as they had them in peace, when there was nothing at all for them to do, but they could work at their trades at home, and maintain themselves without wearing out their uniform, or any other expence to me?' -'That is very true; if your highness was not to consider at the same time, that even then they paid you as much as if it was a time of war, and indeed more than any other nation will, or can pay you now; for as to the promises of France, 
[Page 139]
they are not to be depended on at all, whereas England always pays well.' 
'I do not care! what I have gotten here I will keep, by way of reprisal, for the insult offered to my honour; and if they will have my troops they shall pay me over again for them: so say no more on that head.' 
'I submit; but how will your highness subsist them at home in the mean time. There must be an immediate remittance made of some of this money to Holland, to buy provisions, for your magazines are quite exhausted, and the constant demand for men, to supply the troops you have agreed for, and recruit the losses they have sustained in battle, have not left sufficient to cultivate the land.' 
'Then let them starve! I shall not expend a penny to support them: could not the women and children work? I wonder you should dare to mention such a thing. If I lay out this money what is to support the splendor of my court, since this Englishman has refused to supply me?' 
'I humbly beg your highness's pardon, but what answer am I to send to the English, who have demanded that the troops should march directly?' 
'Why, that I am so enraged at the insult offered to me, by that merchant, that 
[Page 140]
I will not let a man of them stir till I have satisfaction, and a new subsidy; and that I keep this one in the mean time, to make up the deficiencies in former years.' 
'Deficiencies? I do not understand your highness; the subsidies have been always regularly paid.' 
'Obey my commands! I say there have been deficiencies which I am not at leisure to explain in this emergency, but I suppose my word will be taken for it.' 
'I fear your highness does not attend to the change which has lately been in England. The people who might have taken such an answer are now out of power; and their successors are the very men who have always been against dealing with your highness, and may now take the advantage of this breach of faith, for such I well know they will call it, to throw off your alliance for ever: for the people begin to see their own strength, and their governors to exert it properly, and shew them that they want no foreign assistance. And as a proof of this, at this very time, when their enemies not only talk of invading them more confidently than ever, but also have gone so far as to make preparations for such an attempt, so far from being diffident of 
[Page 141]
their own strength, or intimidated to call for help, they have actually sent a powerful body of their troops abroad, and are carrying on the war with vigour and success in every quarter of the world, satisfied that the inhabitants, who remain at home, are able to defend their country, and repel every attempt that may be made against it. And this change in their measures should give a caution how the persons who effected it are provoked.' 
'I care not; I will make the experiment; but do you draw up your dispatches in such a manner, that we may have it in our power to explain them to whatever sense shall suit us best. In the mean time we must keep up our appearance of treating with France, to give a weight of our designs.' 
The minister was prevented from replying by the entrance of the muster master, who had been just making a survey, and taking an account of every man, able to bear arms, in his highness's territories. 
'Well, (said his highness) how do your musters answer? shall I be able to enlarge the number of my troops this year?' -'May it please your most serene highness, (replied the officer) here is the return, in which I have taken down every man 
[Page 142]
from twelve to seventy, according to your commands.' -'And how do they answer? better than last year I hope: there must a great many boys have grown up since.' -'The lift indeed looks almost as full as usual; but the late battles have so drained us of men to fill up the troops, that there are scarce any but boys left at home, and those have been so badly fed of late, that their size does not answer their years, and they look wretchedly beside. So that upon the whole I fear your highness will find it very difficult to compleat the forces already established, much more to raise any new.' 
'I must, I will raise them! tell me not of difficulties! what I command shall be performed! If there are not men, the women shall put on the men's cloaths and go; I will not be shortened of my revenue: they shall fight themselves, since they have not bred soldiers for me.' 
'This, please your highness, is a lift of the disabled men, who are not able to support themselves by any kind of work, having lost their limbs in the wars.' 
'Disabled men? I thought I ordered you not to exchange them; they might have remained in the hands of the enemy; such 
[Page 143]
of them I mean as are not able to breed soldiers for me, and cultivate the lands; or, such as were not prisoners might have been let perish of their wounds; it would have been a mercy to them to shorten their misery.' 
'May it please your highness I observed your orders, and left a number of such wretches, unexchanged; but the enemy saw into my design, and sent them home to be rid of the trouble of them. And now they are crying for subsistence, and demand the arrears of their pay, which was stopped while they were prisoners. The others our surgeons took proper care of.' 
'Insolent slaves! demand pay, when they are no longer able to earn it! And subsistence too! they learned this impudence from their conversation with those English! it is much they did not demand roast beef and pudding too! -Hang up half of them, the next word of the kind they dare to utter, to terrify the other half to starve in quiet. And at your peril let me hear no more of them. 
'As for the musters I will have them compleated; man, woman, and child shall go! I will make my dominions a desart, before 
[Page 144]
I lessen my consequence among the sovereign powers of Europe.' 
CHAP. XVII. 

More cares of sovereignty, and consequences of grandeur. Chrysal is sent to market, where he is given to a Jew for bacon. 
His highness had just declared this magnanimous resolution, when the steward of his houshold entered to let him know, that the butchers and bakers of the next Hans-town, from whence his table was supplied, had refused to send him any more provisions till their bills were paid, as they had heard that he was to receive no more subsidies from England; and there was scarce enough to make out dinner, for that day, for the court was very numerous and brilliant, all the princes and princesses of the various branches of his highness's most illustrious house having come to pay him a visit of congratulation upon the birth of the most serene prince his son and heir; and that his purveyors had been able to 
[Page 145]
find nothing in his own dominions fit for his table, but bear's flesh and venison, nor even a sufficient quantity of these, the misery of his people having made them venture to break through his laws, and hunt in his forests, to save themselves and their families from perishing by famine. 
His highness had hearkened to him without any emotion, or even concern, till he mentioned this outrageous insult upon his sovereign authority and pleasure, but then bursting into a rage, 'Hunt in my forests! (said he) audacious slaves! dearly shall they pay for their presumption! Order my troops to march that way directly! I'll lay the country waste!' -'Please your highness (replied the steward) that will not cost you the trouble of marching your troops: the country is a desart already.' 
'Who told you that they have been guilty of this insolence; you should have seized the author of the report, for not apprehending the criminals.' 
'May it please your highness they took one wretch in the very fact, and have brought him here, to receive the sentence of your pleasure; and the stag with him alive, which he found in a pit, and had borrowed a gun to shoot. He pleaded hunger, and the cries of a starving family 
[Page 146]
of grand-children, for he is an old man, and his three sons have been killed in the wars; but, though I own he moved me, I did not presume to let him go.' 
'It is well you did not, or you should have suffered in his stead. Go, strip him naked; bind him on that stag, and then let him loose with him upon his back into the woods, proclaiming, that no one, upon pain of death, presume to give him the least relief: he shall have hunting enough.' 
'But what will your highness have me do about provisions for the entertainment of the princes. I believe they design a long visit, for they have brought all the young princes and princesses of their illustrious families with them.' 
'I care not! I am not to be disturbed on such trifles now, when the fate of nations depends on my resolutions: let them go home again.' 
'Not fasting I presume; for they have already signified some of them, that they have come without their breakfasts, by calling for refreshment the moment they arrived; and indeed I fear the principal motive of this visit of their highnesses was want of any thing to eat at home.' 

[Page 147]
'Confusion! what can I do? Here, take this money, and send for victuals for them.' 
The sight of an handful of guineas was an agreeable surprize to the steward, who had not heard of the arrival of the subsidy from England. He received them with evident pleasure, and I felt no less in being delivered from this scene of sovereignty, of which I was sincerely sick; though by the change, I fell from being the price of armies to the domestick office of going to market for a morsel of bread, from the glory of causing the slaughter of thousands, to the virtue of supporting the lives of a few. 
The steward, as soon as he withdrew from the presence of his highness, called the other officers of the houshold together, and told them, with joy in his countenance, that there was no foundation for the report of their master's breaking with England, so that they might look famine in the face for another year, and confirmed the glad tidings, by shewing them the gold. 
The pleasing fight raised universal joy; they licked their lips, feasted in imagination, and prepared things for getting dinner ready, with all the alacrity of willing 
[Page 148]
minds, and keen appetites, while the steward not caring to trust a commission of that importance to any inferior officer, waited only to wash down a mouldy crust with a draught of four wine, and then went to market for them himself. 
The appearance of things changed as soon as I left the hereditary dominions of his highness, and entered into the little territories of a free state. Plenty was the reward of industry, and content supplied well the place of grandeur. 
As his highness's minister had pressing motives to accelerate his negociations, he went directly to the several dealers in provisions, and ordering a comfortable supply on the credit of our appearance, returned with the greatest dispatch, to the discharge of the offices of his high employment, in the ceremonials of the court. 
In the course of these transactions it fell to my lot to be paid to a Jew, for bacon and sausages, the butchers of his religion being held to make the best of the latter, as they never cut out the nice bits to eat themselves. 

[Page 149]

CHAP. XVIII. 

Comparison between two dealers in flesh. The celebration of the Passover in the traditional way, and the method of procuring (human) lambs explained. 
I Now entered into a service, the most diametrically opposite of any in nature to my last; my present master denying himself the very necessaries of life to hide his riches under the appearance of poverty, as my last lived in the most vain ostentation of splendor to conceal his poverty under the appearance of riches. 
It is difficult to say which hypocrisy was most absurd and contradictory to the immutable laws of moral justice. The former basely stealing, as I may say, from the publick, that wealth which was ordained to be of advantage to it, and whose value arises only from its being used, by thus secreting it in his coffers, and the latter, in gratification of a vanity as unjustifiable as that avarice, committing every kind of actual violence to supply the want of it. 

[Page 150]
I here was soon initiated into all the mysteries of that lower species of trade, called Pedling, which is in a manner engrossed by those people. False weights and measures, adulteration of wares, lying, perjury, in a word, every species of deceit, that can impose upon ignorance and credulity, were here reduced into a science, taught by precept, and enforced by example, from the earliest exertion of reason, to wear off every hesitation of conscience, and make the practice natural and expert. 
The beauty of my appearance, for I had hitherto escaped mutilation, made my master, who was an adept in that art, think it improper to throw me among his diminished heap, as I should but make their loss the more remarkable. He therefore put me into his purse, to make a shew with upon occasions, and appear as a proof of his innocence of that practice, for which he was too strongly suspected. 
The evening after I came into his possession happened to be one of their most solemn festivals. My master therefore, who was of the tribe of Levy, retired from business early, to purify and prepare himself for the celebration of the most secret and mysterious ceremony of their religion. 

[Page 151]
This was the sacrifice of the Passover, which, by a secret tradition, never committed to writing, for fear of being betrayed, was changed from the typical offering of a lamb, to the real immolation of human blood, for which purpose the most beautiful children were purchased at any expence, and under any pretext, from the ignorance of necessitous parents, or the perfidious avarice of servants, if they could not be obtained by stealth, and brought from all parts of Europe, to these ceremonies: it being a long-received opinion, that the original sacrifice of a lamb was designed only for that one occasion, to conciliate the favour of heaven, to the escape of their fore-fathers out of Egypt; but that to render it propitious to their restoration to their country, and to the consummation of their promised happiness and glory, the type must be changed for the thing typified, and human blood, in the purest state of infant innocence, be offered instead of the ineffectual blood of a brute. 
But as some traces of natural affection might remain, even in hearts divested of the feelings of common humanity, to remove every obstacle to this practice, and stimulate superstition by hatred and revenge, the children of Christians were appointed 
[Page 152]
for this sacrifice, and those especially of the superior ranks of life, whose pride might be too apt to make them treat the people of the Jews, with severity and contempt. 
As to other points, the rules laid down in the institution of the Passover were literally observed, in respect to the victim, who was to be without blemish, a male of the first year, that is, the first-born of his mother, and to be kept fourteen days before he was sacrificed, during which time they fed him with the richest food, to raise him to the highest perfection of his nature. 
The place chosen for the celebration of this ceremony, was a summer-house in a garden belonging to one of the rulers of their synagogue, where they all met at the appointed time. As soon as they were placed in order, one of the elders stood up, and in a long speech declared the occasion of their meeting, read the original institution of the Passover, and then recited the tradition, which changed the sacrifice to be offered, as I said before; concluding with an oath of secresy, which all present joined in and confirmed with the most dreadful imprecations, and which was to be sealed by the participation of this horrid mystery. 

[Page 153]
When he had ended, the victims of that night were produced, their bodies examined for fear of blemish, and their primogeniture proved, by those who had provided them, who were reimbursed their expences before the sacrifice began, by the general contribution of all present. 
This method was used, that every person might have an equal share in the merit of the sacrifice, as it would be dangerous and too expensive to provide a lamb for every head of a family in the congregation. 

The End of the First Book. 


[Page 154]

[Page 155]

CHRYSAL: OR THE ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 
BOOK The Second. 
CHAP. I. 

The rites are interrupted, and the victims changed. This cleared up without a miracle. The few survivors of the first fury brought to publick justice. 
I See your astonishment how so absurd an opinion could ever take possession of a rational mind, as that the deity could be pleased with the breach of his most strict command, and rendered propitious by an action against which his severest vengeance 
[Page 156]
was denounced; yet such are the errors which the least deviation from the straight paths of reason lead to, when ceremony is made the essence of religion, and human inventions substituted in the place of immutable, eternal virtue. 
The Devil, whoever is meant by that most comprehensive name, has long been charged with being the author of this and every other vice and folly, which men are ashamed of owning themselves; his temptation being a convenient and comfortable excuse. But if man would consider a little, he must blush at so unfair and ridiculous a charge, and give the poor devil his due, who, among all his failings, has never been suspected of being a fool, and nothing else could have devised such gross enormities, such contradictions to the plainest rules of common reason. 
But of this strange institution of human sacrifices, we need search for the original, no farther than in the heart of man, who observing, that to inculcate the duty of gratitude, the first of moral virtues, the divine will had directed returns of its blessings to be made, in the way of oblation or sacrifice, soon perverted the original purity of the institution to his own depravity, and measuring the divine beneficence 
[Page 157]
by his capricious avarice, concluded, that the richer the oblation, or the dearer to the offerer, the greater would the merit of it be, and thus he arose from a lamb to an hecatomb, from brute to human blood; his eagerness to obtain the end, for which he thus strove to bribe the favour of heaven, hindering him to see the absurdity of the means he used. 
All things being prepared, the victims were brought to the altar naked and bound, the instruments for slaying, and the fires for roasting them (for horrour to human thought, they were to have feasted on their flesh) in readiness, and the butchers, of whom my master was one, just going to begin their work, when the doors of the house were burst open, with an outcry, that heightened the terrors of the guilty wretches, and a band of soldiers rushed in, and seized them, as they stood stupified with their fright. 
The horrour of the sight gave a respite to their fate, striking the very hearts of the soldiers, though hardened by all the cruelties of war, with an astonishment that deprived them of power to stir for some moments. But this was only a short calm, that, as it were, gave time to the storm to gather; for, as they stood thus gazing 
[Page 158]
at each other, one of the children cried out, O, father! father! come and untie my hands! these ugly cords hurt me! 
The voice no sooner struck the ear of the officer, who commanded the party, then starting in a phrenzy, he ran to the child, whom he had not distinguished before, as he lay naked on the ground, and snatching him up in his arms, 'O my child! my child! (said he, in an extasy) have I found you! have I rescued you in the very moment when you were going to be sacrificed by these wretches. O my child! my child.' 
These words awoke the fury of the soldiers, which burst upon the wretched Jews with a violence not to be restrained. The house was in a moment a scene of horrour beyond description. Most of them fell instant sacrifices to this resistless rage. Happier far in having so speedy an end put to their sufferings than the few survivours, who saved their lives for that moment, by throwing themselves among the dead, or taking hold of the children, whom, even in this hurricane of passion, the soldiers took all care not to hurt. 
The little respite which this caution gave, the officers improved to pacify the soldiers, who would not be persuaded to spare the 
[Page 159]
rest, by any other argument, but a positive assurance of having them put to the most severe and infamous publick death. 
When the storm was a little calmed by these means, and the living separated from the dead, the pillage of the scene was given up to the men, who rifled all, living and dead, with the most unrelenting severity, and retaliated their wicked intentions, with exemplary justice on the miserable criminals, stripping them quite naked, and binding them with the very cords which they took off their destined victims, who were unbound with the tenderest care, and carried away till their parents should be discovered, or in case that could not be, to be educated at the publick expence, as the children of the state, while their intended murderers were thrown into prison, till a punishment should be appointed severe enough for their guilt. 
In the confusion of this affair, I had fallen into the hands of the officer, who had found his child, whose passions were raised so high by the recovery of him, that as soon as the plunder was over, he left his charge to another, and retired to share his joy with his disconsolate wife. 
The tenderness of this meeting was a just reverse of the former part of the last 
[Page 160]
scene, where the helpless infants were led forth to be slaughtered. 
As the Jews were some of the wealthiest of the inhabitants, and carried on a great part of the trade of the city, the magistrates, to prevent the imputation of injustice, and to set the whole affair in a proper light to the world, convened the people early the next morning, where the rescued infants were produced on one side, and the few that remained alive of their intended butchers on the other, when my new master, who bore a considerable office in the state, beside his military command, unfolded the whole affair, in a short, but moving speech. He told them, 'that having lost his only child, the infant there present, about a month before, and having been informed when he served in Poland, in his youth, that the Jews had a custom of stealing and sacrificing, or murdering infants, on the night when they celebrated their Passover, he made no search for him, but seemed to believe a story which he had invented himself, to appease the distraction of his wife, that he had been killed and devoured by a tame wolf, that was kept in the garden of his country house, from whence he was stolen, watching, in the 
[Page 161]
mean time, every motion of the Jews with such exactness, that he had punctual information of their meeting at the place where he had seized them the evening before; where it was to be lamented, that the just resentment of the soldiers had anticipated the severer hand of justice, and saved them from the laws, the judgment of which he now demanded against the remaining few, for himself and for the unknown parents of the innocent victims, whom they saw before them.' 
A roar of universal indignation pursued his words, which had inflamed the rage and detestation of the people so high, that they were with difficulty restrained from tearing the wretches instantly in pieces, by the same arguments which had saved them from the soldiers before: nor were the Jews admitted to say a word in their own defence, for though none of the infants had been actually murdered that night, yet the intention was beyond controversy, and beside, many of the people, who had formerly lost their children, now charged them with their murder, with the strongest appearance of justice. 
They were therefore dragged back to prison, where they lay loaded with chains, 
[Page 162]
till the day of their execution, when they were all publickly burned alive on the very spot where they were to have perpetrated their guilt, the house being rased to the ground for that purpose, and all the effects of such as were taken in this fact, confiscated to the use of the state. 
CHAP. II. 

A breach of neutrality properly resented brings Chrysal into a service which he had long been ambitious of. How he found his new master employed. The king of Bulgaria's reception of the humbled magistrates. His appropriation of money to his own use. His reflections on the sight of Chrysal. 
This affair was scarce ended, when I changed my master again. The city in which I was, had professed a neutrality in the present war, but whether yielding to inclination, or biassed by private interest, the magistrates had, on many occasions, shewn the strongest partiality to the enemies of the king of Bulgaria. 

[Page 163]
Of this that heroic prince over-looked many instances in compassion to their folly; but instead of inspiring them with proper sentiments of gratitude, this moderation only raised their injudicious pride so high, that attributing it to fear, they at length proceeded so far, as to refuse him those good offices, which, by the universal laws of mankind, he had a right to demand, and treated his messengers with disrespect. 
This drew on them a resentment that was never raised in vain. The king, without deigning to waste time in complaints, sent a body of forces directly to their gates, and obliged them to buy their safety with contributions, and deprecate his vengeance with submissions, which humbled their pride, and terrified their neighbours from being guilty of the like folly. 
As these contributions were too large to be immediately discharged by the state, they were obliged to be levied on the subjects, by which means I came into the service of this monarch, to whose treasurer I was paid, by the humbled magistrates of the city on their knees. 
The many great things which I had heard of this prince, had long made me wish for such an opportunity of seeing him, and of having a knowledge of his heart, that I 
[Page 164]
might be able to judge whether he really was the great man he appeared to the world, by all his actions to be. How my expectations were answered cannot be explained justly without a particular account of every thing I saw, while I was with him; but as that would be too much for my time, which begins to grow short, I shall only give you a few of the most remarkable particulars, by which you may form a judgment of the rest. 
The king was walking in his camp before the entrance of his tent, after having finished the business of the morning, conversing with the most engaging affability with his officers, and even the private centinels of his guard, redressing their complaints, and relieving their wants, when the magistrates of the city I had just left, arrived to pay their contributions, and make submission for their misbehaviour; for to humble them the more effectually he had ordered that they should attend himself. 
As soon as they approached him, they fell on their knees, and delivering the money to his treasurer, implored his pardon, in the most abject terms of submission. 'Arise, (said the monarch) and cease your supplications; the posture and address are both improper to be offered to a man; 
[Page 165]
but the passions of the foolish are ever in extremes; and your fear sinks you now as low, as your vain insolence raised you high before. Depart in peace and safety; and let this teach you, not to mistake moderation for fear another time. But beware that you offend not so again. Mercy, that is amiable in the first instance, degenerates to folly if extended to a second.' 
The magistrates unable to speak before him, retired in confusion from his presence, when turning to his treasurer, 'Take (said he) so much of that money as will repair the losses sustained by the innocent inhabitants of the country around their city, and see that it is given to the sufferers to be applied to that use, and none other, for I war not with the poor, nor would have my steps marked by desolation, when it can possibly be avoided. And of the remainder leave the usual sum upon my table, for my private occasions.' 
Then addressing himself to the officers around him in general, 'How abject (said he) is the submission of the proud! how does guilt humble the conscious heart! these unhappy men, who dared not now to meet our eyes, but hasted with down cast looks from the flash of just indignation, 
[Page 166]
when last we saw them, looked us in the face with the assurance of friendly respect, and seemed happy in the marks of our regard. Let this teach us to preserve the adamantine shield of a clear conscience, and terrour can never strike a dart through it, to our hearts.' 
When the treasurer went to divide the money, among which I lay, according to his master's orders, I was greatly alarmed for fear I should be torn so soon from the presence of this prince, but my anxiety was relieved, when he took that bag in which I was, and gave it to one of his master's pages, to lay upon his table. 
The many things I had heard of this prince's greatness, had, I own, deceived me into expectations of pomp and grandeur in his court, and particularly about his person. This made me surprized to find every thing in a plainness, far greater than what I had in many instances observed in private life. But I instantly perceived my error, and that his greatness was his own, established on the virtues of his soul, and independent of, and superiour to every adventitious circumstance. 
I had not lain long upon his table when he entered alone, and walking a meditative turn or two across the tent, kneeled down, 
[Page 167]
and offered up his soul in the most ardent devotion to heaven. 
He then arose with a most serenely chearful countenance, and coming to the table poured out the money, and viewing it earnestly for a moment, 'O thou source of every evil which distracts this wretched world, (said he) let me not be infected by thy poison; let not my heart conceive a fondness for thee, farther than what thy native value of enabling it to do good, justly entitles thee to; I am yet free from thine infatuation; nor have ever suffered avarice to tempt me to desire thee, by improper means, nor vain luxury, or pride, to abuse thee by profusion. This pittance only do I call my own, which I devote to the divine author of all the benefits and mercies of my life, in grateful return, by supplying with it the necessities of my distressed fellow creatures.' 
Then taking an handful of it to put into his pocket, and happening to observe my shape, he took me up, and looking attentively at me, 'Is there no corner of the earth (said he) where the wealth of Britain is not dispersed? if its commerce collects the produce of every climate under heaven, 
[Page 168]
its munificence does also diffuse its riches as far. Great and happy nation! wer't thou but sensible of the blessings of thy condition; but the time is come, when thou openest thine eyes to thine own interest, and feelest the mightiness of thy strength. How great is the power of true wisdom! how happy the people who have a good man for their guide.' 
Saying this he put us into his pocket, and as soon as it was dark, wrapped himself in a cloak, and went out privately to take a view of his camp, in a disguise, that secured him from misinformation or deceit. 

[Page 169]

CHAP. III. 

The king takes a view of his camp in disguise. The exalted pleasure he received in the various occurrences of his walk. He gains a great victory. His conduct in and after the battle. 
The notion I had formed of a camp from the effects which I had seen of war, made me expect a scene of tumult and confusion. But how was I surprized here to find every thing as regular and tranquil as the best governed city in the midst of peace. 
My master had not walked far, when some conversation, that seemed to be carried on with warmth in one of the tents, catching his ear, he stopped to listen what might be the subject of it, 'I imagine (said a voice within) that we shall have a a battle soon: the chearfulness of the king's looks, and the more than common spirits he has been in for these few days, are certain signs that he has some 
[Page 170]
great things in view. I always observe him so before a battle.' 
'The sooner it comes the better, (replied another) I only wish, that our forces were not so overmatched in numbers; not that I fear success when he is with us; but that we might be able to give them a total defeat at once, and so prevent their making head again. For such is the inequality at present, that while we are killing half of them the other half escape, and though what we destroy exceeds the number of our own army, yet another army of the runnaways still remains to give us more trouble. But however we must only do our duty, and kill them all one after another.' 
'And so we will brother, continued the other) if it please God to preserve our king to us; for while we have him we can fear nothing. The number of our enemies only encreases the glory of vanquishing them. Indeed I wonder how they can stand before us even as they do; wretches that are dragged to the war against their inclination, who have no interest in the event, no attachment to their leaders! But what attachment should they have to such leaders, who shew no regard to their distresses, nor make any 
[Page 171]
provision for their wants, but just drive them to battle, like oxen to the slaughter, and when it is over, take no farther care about them, but let them perish by famine, if they cannot relieve themselves by plundering the unhappy countries, friends or enemies alike, through which they go.' 
'Well brother, (returned a third voice) thank God that is not our case; we follow a leader who is a father to his soldiers, and provides for all their occasions. We fight for ourselves, and our families, for our laws and religion, and are sure that he will support us in the enjoyment of them, when he has disappointed the designs of his enemies, and restored peace to his people: but if we are to fight to morrow we had better take our rest to night, to make us fresh and strong for the battle. God bless and preserve our king; while his care watches over us we can sleep in safety in the midst of our enemies.' 
This genuine tribute of praise melted the heart of the king with the sublimest delight, and drew the tear of tenderness from his eye. 'O my God (said he, when the voices ceased) enable me to protect this people, and to bring this just war 
[Page 172]
to an happy end, that they may enjoy the fruit of their virtues.' -He then continued his progress, in which he met many such occasions of conscious pleasure. When he saw that all things were in proper order in the camp; his next care was to visit the quarters of the wounded and sick, for he would not trust them to any person, where he could possibly attend to them himself. 
The manner in which all things were ordered here, for the relief and comfort of the evils inseparable from war, were alone sufficient to raise the highest idea of the tenderness and humane care, which directed and supported it. No riot or disorder; no negligence or abuse among the attendants; no misapplication or embezzlement of the provisions made for the patients: all was order and harmony between them. How unlike to other scenes of the same nature which I had seen before. 
If he was delighted with the spirited attachment of his soldiers in health, his delight was almost raised to extasy, by the behaviour of these victims of the madness of the great. The thought of having suffered in his cause, the extremest anguish of pain, nor even the agonies of death ever making them utter a syllable to his disadvantage, 
[Page 173]
or forget him in their prayers' in which his preservation was always joined with their own relief, and his happiness recommended with their souls to heaven. 
This was too moving to be long borne; he joined in the general prayer, and hasted from the tender scene as soon as he had fulfilled the motive of his going, by taking a strict view of every thing, in which his orders might be disobeyed; and these his particular family, as he called them, suffer by neglect. 
His tour was now finished, and he returned to his tent, to take his necessary rest, having distributed, on the various occasions that had occurred in his walk, all the money he had taken with him, except me, who happened to stick in the corner of his pocket. 
Temperance, exercise, and serenity of conscience ensured his repose; he fell asleep the moment his head touched the pillow, nor awoke till his usual early time of rising the next morning, when he returned to the fatigue and perplexity of such a multiplicity of affairs with a clear head, and undismayed heart, and soon reduced the confusion of them into such order, as made their execution easy. 

[Page 174]
As the soldier had judged, the hour of battle was at hand. The king had scarce finished the business of the morning, when an officer brought him an account, that the forces of the enemy were in motion. 'I expected it, (said the king coolly) I knew they could not remain long in the situation they were in. But let us observe their motions, that we may regulate ours by them.' 
Then ordering some of his generals to follow him, he went to the top of a neighbouring house, from whence he could view them distinctly, where having observed them attentively for some considerable time, 'It is done my friends! (said he, with a smile of joy that enlightened all his face) it is done! that last motion is what we wanted. Let us haste and embrace the opportunity which heaven has put into our hands.' -Then ascending with an alacrity that inspired every beholder, he made his dispositions for the battle, and putting himself at the head of his forces, marched directly against the enemy. 
Descriptions of battles are never satisfactory; the confusion is too great, and the business of the scene too complex to be brought into the regularity of any one design. 
[Page 175]
I shall therefore only say, that my master was compleatly victorious; and to raise his own glory the higher, the victory was entirely gained by that part of his forces which he commanded in person; the excellent disposition he had made of the rest, rendering it unnecessary for them to do more than stand spectators of the action, from the situation in which he placed them, while they prevented him from being surrounded by the enemy. 
This victory was not gained without resistance: the field was long and obstinately disputed, and my master often obliged to lead his men to the charge: but numbers were at length forced to submit to superior valour; and the evening sun saw his banners wave in triumph, where those of his enemies had menaced his destruction in the morningIf the intrepidity with which he flew from rank to rank, and exposed himself to every shape of death in the action, had struck me with astonishment, I was not less affected by his conduct after it was over; when cooling instantly from that enthusiasm of courage, he gave his orders for securing the glorious advantage he had gained for taking immediate care of the unhappy sufferers, both friends and enemies without distinction, and 
[Page 176]
for refreshing his own laboured soldiers, with all the serenity of peace. 
CHAP. IV. 

The happy fruits of victory. Chrysal finds new reason to admire his master. A stranger throws himself at his feet to implore justice. The story of the stranger. 
The transactions succeding this event, were but but the common occurrences on such occasions, in which there is always something so cruel in the triumphs of the victors, and so severe in the sufferings of the vanquished, that to a being free from the contradictory phrensies of mankind, the very thought is painful His majesty's next care, after returning publick thanks to heaven, on the very spot where its favour had been so signal, was to reward the behaviour of his soldiers: he praised! he promoted! he gave money to them, according to their different ranks and dispositions. Nor was his justice more bounteous in the reward of merit, than severe 
[Page 177]
in the punishment of the want of it. 
Under such a leader, what forces could withstand his soldiers? under the discerning eye of such a prince, who was not actuated with ambition to distinguish himself in the execution of his duty, to obtain his favour? Who dared to be guilty of disobedience or neglect to incur his wrath? 
From the field of battle the victorious army was directly marched away to a siege, their success in which was to open them an opportunity of attacking another army of the enemy with advantage. 
Such a round of carnage was so shocking, that the virtues of my master were not a ballance to the horrors of his service, and I began to wish for a release from such a scene of glory, when an unexpected occasion shewed me his character in a light, that raised my admiration of him still higher. 
As he was riding along the lines of his camp, the morning after the battle, reviewing a body of forces which he was detaching on a particular expedition, a man, in the habit of a private soldier, threw himself prostrate across his way, crying, 'Mercy! O great king! have mercy on the sufferings of a wretch in despair, and shew 
[Page 178]
yourself the substitute of heaven by impartial justice.' -The guards and attendants on the king would have spurned the suppliant out of the way, but his majesty, struck with the strangeness of the address, and imagining it must proceed from some extraordinary cause, interposed, and bidding him arise, 'What is the grievance you complain of? (said he, with a placid look and encouraging accent) or against whom do you so solemnly implore justice?' 
'O, great and good king, (replied the stranger, with an air that bespoke something above his present appearance) my griefs are too many to be told so concisely as your present situation demands, and the justice I implore will require time to divest nature of its strongest passions.' -'What can this mean! (said the monarch in surprize) meet me directly at my tent, and expect that justice which the simplicity of truth shall be entitled to, without these laboured exclamations.' -The business which his mind was intent upon, prevented the king's thinking any more of this affair, till he saw the man at his return to his tent; when calling to him, 'Now (said he) speak your griefs with the boldness, but also with the guard of 
[Page 179]
truth, and doubt not the redress of justice.' -Encouraged by these words, the stranger bowing his head, and pausing a moment, as if to support his grief, began thus, 'So may the ear of heaven be ever open to thy petitions, O gracious king, as thou hast readily vouchsafed to hear my cries! so may its justice redress thy wrongs, as thou shalt deal with mine. Thou seest before thee the most wretched of mankind, whom despair has reduced to the necessity of flying from the defence of his country, and imploring justice for his private wrongs, from the declared foe of my sovereign. But let me not waste your time with fruitless complaints. My name, though spoken with some respect in my native country, is too obscure to have reached your ears, as my ancestors wisely confined their virtues to private life, nor ever laboured to emblazon their names with titles, that too often marr the happiness of their owners. 
'In their steps I trod, till the wrath of heaven kindled the ambition of princes, and my country became the theatre of their contention. I then thought it my duty to arise in its defence, and the justice of my motive drew success on my 
[Page 180]
attempts. But while I vainly indulged the hope of being instrumental in delivering my country from the horrors of war, a foe broke into my house, thus destitute of its defender, and rifled all the treasure of my soul. O, my unhappy wife! my newly wedded, beauteous wife! in vain didst thou call upon me in the hour of thy distress! when the hand of the ravisher was twisted in thine hair, and the horrors of immediate ruin took possession of thy foul. Thy protector was away, busied in the defence of other, while the wolf was ravaging his deserted fold. 
'But whither does my distraction hurry me? O pardon, gracious monarch, the inconsistencies of despair! I will be brief; I will not trespass on thy precious time.' -He paused then a moment, till a flood of tears eased the fulness of his heart, and then proceeded thus. 
'In the irruption of thy troops into Bohemia, about six months ago, my unhappy fortune led a party of them to my house, where the industry of my ancestors, for ages of peace, fell a sacrifice to the wantonness of unrestrained devastation in one moment. But I complain not of this. It was my share of 
[Page 181]
the indiscriminate calamity. Alas! my woes are of another nature. 
'The beauty of my wife struck the very hardened hearts of the soldiers with such reverence, that, in the fury of their outrage, they dared not to lay a sacrilegious hand on her: but this safeguard that protected her from rapine, only raised the more audacious rage of lust against her. The officer who commanded the party no sooner saw her, than inflamed with brutal desire, he hurried her away with him to the camp, where imagination shrinks in horror, from the thought of what she may have suffered. 
'The news of my misfortune soon reached me; no restraints of military duty were of force to hold me a moment; I flew to the scene of my ruin, where, having learned what I have related to you, the greatness of my grief stupified me for a time, till the thought of my wife's being still alive, and in the possession of her ravisher, rouzed me to a resolution of labouring for her relief. I, therefore, immediately entered in disguise into those very troops which had perpetrated my ruin, as I despaired of eluding the vigilance of thy officers by any other means. My stratagem had 
[Page 182]
success; I soon learned that the officer, who had brought my wife from my house, had been obliged to give her up to his general, who had demanded her as soon as she had been brought to the camp. 
'A dawn of hope broke in upon me; though I could not gain any account of her after this, I thought that a man, honoured with your particular esteem, must be possessed of virtue, and this I knew must be her protection. 
'Big with this hope I found means to rejoin my own corps, where my absence was easily excused to a general who was my friend, and who readily yielded to my request of sending a trumpet, with a letter to enquire for such a lady, and to desire that she might be treated with the tenderness and respect due to her sex, and beauty, till she should be restored to her friends. 
'But all my fond hopes fell to the ground, when an answer was returned, that the general knew not of such a person. Despair now stared me in the face; I saw all the horrors of my condition; and would that instant have returned in my disguise and stabbed the ravisher at the head of his forces, had I not reflected that my Theodora might be only exposed 
[Page 183]
by such an action, to new insults, and her life perhaps sacrificed in torture and ignominy to revenge. 
'While I fluctuated in this distress heaven inspired me with the thought of having recourse to your justice. Though he is the enemy of my sovereign, said I, he is a man who feels the tender impulse of humanity; he is a king, who delights in justice! I therefore reassumed my disguise and entered into your camp as a deserter, the night before this battle, in which instinctive abhorrence of cowardice urged me to the duty of a soldier, and I happened to fight near your person; where, though I was sensible of my crime, in assisting the enemy of my sovereign, I had this palliative consolation, that the forces I engaged were not my fellow-subjects, but those of a perfidious ally, who entered into the war only to take his own advantage, when a proper opportunity should offer. 
'This, O gracious king, is my unhappy story; this is the grievance for which I implore thy justice; for which I fought against the allies of my sovereign yesterday; for which I threw myself before your horse's feet this morning; for which I now call upon you by that power who 
[Page 184]
has placed you as his substitute on earth, and will require an account of thy stewardship. O justice! justice! justice!' 
CHAP. V. 

The king sends for the general, and orders the stranger to be confined, till his arrival. Continuation of the story of the stranger. A new trial of the king's fortitude and activity of soul. 
The king heard out the strangers story without interruption, and then addressing himself to his officers and attendants round him, 'How unhappy (said he) is the condition of princes, who must be answerable for the crimes of their servants, as if every man's own were not more than he can bear. 
'I thought this man as upright as I knew him brave; I thought justice and mercy attempered valour in his breast. But perhaps he is wronged; let us not judge too hastily: go, (turning to one of his officers) bid him come to me directly, nor tell him a word of the occasion; if 
[Page 185]
he is guilty he has forfeited my esteem for ever; but if this complaint is only a calumny devised to exasperate me against one of my best friends, severely shall the author of it feel that justice which he so solemnly implores. Let him therefore be taken into custody till the event decides the doubt; but let him be treated with that humanity which his apparent distress stands in need of; nor let any hardship or indignity give justice the appearance of prejudice, or seem to intimidate his resolution.' 
He then retired to enjoy those few moments of his life, which privacy enabled him to call his own. 
His majesty's commands were so punctually obeyed, that the general arrived at the camp the very next day, where he immediately waited on his master, who received him with his usual familiarity, and having confer'd with him for some time, on the situation of the affairs under his care, he led him to the door of his tent, where he had ordered the stranger to be brought to confront him, and then spoke thus, as if in continuation of his former discourse, 'It has ever been my strongest wish, my most positive command, that the calamities of this necessary war should fall as 
[Page 186]
light as possible on the innocent subjects of those powers who have provoked it: particularly I have always enjoined the strictest care, to avoid every unnecessary devastation of private property, every appearance of cruelty, or ill treatment to the defenceless weakness of the aged, of women, and children. What then must be my grief to find these orders disobeyed? to find that the ruins of the poor mark the marches of my armies, and the cries of private anguish arise to heaven against me? But these enormities shall not lie on my head, for neglect of punishing them; nor be persisted in on the hope of impunity. Were my right hand guilty of such crimes I would cut it off with my left, rather than it should infect my mind.' 
The solemnity with which the king spoke these words, struck all present with terror for the accused, who alone was ignorant of their design. The king saw the general concern, and to let the impression sink the deeper, he paused some moments before he proceeded; then turning short upon the general with a determined look, and aweful voice, 'Tell me (said he) where is the woman, whom thou hadst from the officer who brought her to the camp, when 
[Page 187]
the forces under thy command entered into Bohemia? the woman whom the Bohemian general sent to enquire after in vain; and whom I fear thou didst deny, and still detainest for purposes too base to mention?' 
The unexpectedness of this charge deprived the unhappy criminal of all presence of mind: he stood abashed, and the confusion of his looks too plainly betrayed his guilt. The king saw his distress with the greatest concern, but superior to every private regard that could interfere with his sublimer character, 'Tell me where she is this instant! (said he) nor aggravate by falshood, crimes already too flagrant; for I will know the whole of this black affair.' 
'O, sir! (replied the general, throwing himself at his feet) I acknowledge my crime; but I cannot bear thy wrath; let me die this moment; let that punishment expiate my guilt; but afflict me not longer with thy displeasure, which is heavier than I can bear.' -'Where is the woman? speak.' -'Safe and inviolate in my tent. My intreaties have not been able to prevail on her virtue; and my passion was too delicate to seek gratification by force.' -'This moment let 
[Page 185]
her be sent for! and let the cause of her coming be concealed from her: I will learn the truth of this strange affair from herself. In the mean time let her husband be treated with tenderness and respect. His misfortunes deserve compassion.' 
The king had scarce said this, when an express arrived from another of his armies, which guarded his own dominions from the calamities of war, to inform him, that they had been repulsed with great loss, in an attack upon the army of the enemy, which was now in full march to his capital'Thy will be done, O God, (said the king) thy will be done.' -And then without any appearance of surprize or alteration in his looks, he instantly gave orders for a strong detachment of the army under his own command, to march to the reinforcement of that which had suffered this loss; and retired to consider of the alterations which this event must necessarily occasion in the operations of the campaign, and write his several orders accordingly, for he was his own secretary. 
But though his looks were thus easy his heart severely felt this misfortune; 'O God (said he as soon as he was alone) when will thy wrath be appeased? When shall this people have rest? If I am the unhappy 
[Page 189]
object of it, O let it fall on my head alone, but spare them! There is nothing certain in this life; nothing worth a wife man's care or regard; the victory with which it pleased thee to bless our arms so lately, raised my hopes to a prospect of peace. But the scene is now changed; and this advantage will raise the pride and malice of our enemies still higher, and make new deluges of blood necessary to bring them to a sense of reason and justice. Thy will be done, O Lord; but as it is not yet declared, it is our duty to make use of the means which thou hast put into our power, to accomplish that end, which appears to us most just and advantageous. The horrours of war are ready to burst upon my country after all my endeavours to save it, and divert them elsewhere. But they shall not unopposed; I myself will stand in the breach, and defend my native country.' 
The serenity in the looks of the king had deceived the fears of the army, and every one prepared to obey him with the greatest alacrity: and though this affair put the whole camp in motion, it occasioned neither disorder nor confusion. Active as light, the king was every where, ordered every 
[Page 190]
thing, saw every thing prepared, as well for the convenience of his soldiers as for the greatest possible expedition of their march. His armies might be vanquished, for they were but men; but to deject or disorder his mind was not in the power of any event. 
CHAP. VI. 

Conclusion of the story of the stranger. His wife arrives and acquits the general. The king's speech to him, and generosity to the strangers. Chrysal changes his service, and goes with them. Some general remarks on the character of the king of Bulgaria, and the probable consequences of the war. 
By this time the Bohemian lady arrived, whom the king ordered to be brought directly to his tent. The first sight of this woman raised emotions in his heart, which it had long been a stranger to. A beauty that exceeded imagination, and a sweetness and expression in her looks beyond description, soon made him sensible 
[Page 191]
that all his heroism could not eradicate the passions of nature, and raised his pity both for the unfortunate general and for her husband. 
He stood some moments gazing at her in silent astonishment; but recollecting himself soon he addressed her thus with, the highest complacency and respect, in his look and accent. 'I have sent for you, madam, to this improper place for the delicacy of your sex, to learn from yourself the manner of your having been brought away from Bohemia, and the cause of your being since detained by the general of my army. Speak, madam, have you suffered any violence, any usage improper for your sex and merit; speak with the assurance of truth, and expect justice and redress.' 
'O mighty king, (said the lady, prostrating herself at his feet) oft have I heard of thy wondrous virtues, but never 'till this moment could I think that you could stoop so low as to take notice of my wretchedness. My sad story is no more than this; I was torn from my house by an officer of your army; I was hurried away to the camp by him; and there insulted by the base offers of his love; but heaven delivered me from him. Your 
[Page 192]
general heard of my distress and rescued me from his power: since which time I have had no personal cause of complaint, beside the indiscriminate calamity of the wars, which have robbed me of my husband, and left me a friendless widow in the hands of mine enemies.' -A flood of tears here stopped her utterance. 
The king raising her from the ground proceeded thus, 'A widow, madam, did you say; how long since have you lost your husband, and by what means did you hear of his death?' 
'O, fire! (replied she) as soon as I was freed from the horrours of brutal violence by the general, I wrote to my husband with his permission, but received no answer to many, very many letters. This suspence was worse than death, and almost drove me to despair; till the general at length, in compassion to my misery, wrote himself to the commander of the army in which my husband had served, who returned him for answer, that he had been killed about the time I was taken prisoner. O! happy had been my lot had I shared his fate!' 
'I hope, madam, (said the king) you have received no injuries, that make you 
[Page 193]
weary of life: I hope my General has not misbehaved himself to you.' 
'O, fire! (replied she) I have received no injuries, beside the irreparable loss of my husband, after which I can have no desire to live. As for the General, he has always treated me with the greatest compassion and tenderness: but now will your majesty hear the voice of affliction? will you grant the only wish of an heart in despair? let me be conveyed to some religious house, where I may devote the sad remnant of my days to the service of heaven, far from the knowledge of the General and every other person, who has ever heard my name. I am sensible of the presumption of troubling you with this request; but to whom should we fly in the moment of distress, except to heaven, or its vicegerents, especially those whose virtues give its seal to their authority.' 
'You may depend (returned the king) upon every endeavour of my power, to make you happy. But, madam, what meant the particular mention of the General, in your desire of being retired from the knowledge of the world? Pray be ingenuous; I hope he has not transgressed 
[Page 194]
the limits of his own virtue and my command.' 
'O, fire! (replied she) mistake not the incoherencies of distraction; the General has always treated me with respect and tenderness; tenderness in excess, for nothing can be hid from you, was the only thing my soul could disapprove in his behaviour. He offered me honourable love; but, alas, my husband! my dead husband has possession of this heart! there he is buried! nor ever shall another love disturb his dear remembrance.' 
'Madam, be comforted, (returned the king) such virtue as your's is the peculiar care of heaven; you may be happy yet; your husband may be still alive: in the disorders of these unhappy times, many strange things happen; many who are thought to be alive are long since dead; many who have been long thought dead are found to be alive.' -'O sire! what can your words import? you would not jest with misery! you can not speak in vain! O, am I yet to hope after so long despair?' -'Hope! always hope! but I shall send a proper person to explain my words.' 
Saying this, the king went to the door of his tent, and seeing her husband bursting with anxiety and impatience, he called 
[Page 195]
him, 'Go (said he) in there, and see what blessings heaven reserves for virtue; go in alone; such meltings of the soul as must attend your meeting are too delicate to be exposed to other eyes.' 
Then turning to the General, 'You have behaved nobly my friend, (said he) in such temptation, which was almost too great for human virtue; had you injured such excellence, dear as you are to my heart, your life should have expiated the crime. But you have behaved nobly; in such a trial, it is virtue to refrain from vice; the errors you have fallen into are but the weaknesses of nature; for to have been insensible to her beauty and perfections would have argued a deficiency in humanityBut beware my friend of indulging those passions; they enervate the heart and wean the soul insensibly from virtue; the example is before thine eyes; see how the violence of love has been able to urge the noble heart of this woman's husband, to desert his charge, to enter into the service of his enemies, to fight against the dictates of his own conscience: think of this and be more cautious for the future; the heart of a soldier has not room for love.' 

[Page 196]
The General, unable to reply, threw himself at his feet, and embraced his knees. 'I understand you, (said the king, smiling) your passion is not quite cured; but you shall have employment to wear off this rust of idleness: return to your command this moment, and expect my farther orders.' 
The General obeyed, and the king addressing those around him, 'To be without fault (said he) were not to be a man; he is the best who has the smallest; and allowance is to be made for human frailty, where the temptation is too great for human virtue.' 
As the king said this, the stranger and his wife came out together, and throwing themselves at his feet, bedewed them with tears of grateful extasy. 'Arise, (said the monarch) and be happy in each other: I have restored you your wife, (said he to the husband) and am ready to do you every further instance of justice which you can demand.' 
'My soul is satisfied, O gracious king; my soul is satisfied, (replied he) I ask no more of heaven, but to reward your goodness; your justice and compassion.' 

[Page 197]
'But there is one thing more to be considered, (said the king) your estate was wasted; your houses burned by my soldiers; I do not know the loss you may have suffered: take this, (giving him a large purse of gold) if that is not sufficient to repair it, when heaven in mercy to mankind shall bid the calamities of war to cease, if my life is spared, come to me and I will remove every cause of your complaint. I do not ask you to enter into my service in this war, but if your honour, your conscience oppose it not, you may expect every encouragement due to your merit.' 
'O sire! it is too much! your goodness overwhelms me! I will retire from the seat of war! I will implore heaven for your happiness and safety; and tho' I cannot, may not fight for you, my arm shall never more be raised against you.' 
His wife and he then withdrew to prepare for their departure, leaving the king no less happy in being the author of their happiness, than his goodness and bounty had made themI here quitted the service of this great prince, being in the purse which he gave to the stranger. The happiness which this pair experienced in being 
[Page 198]
thus unexpectedly restored to each other is not to be expressed; the delicacy of their love being as much too sublime for description, as the sensuality of other scenes was beneath it. In a word; they wanted, they wished for nothing more, and to secure the possession of what they enjoyed, they resolved to go and live privately with his brother, an ecclesiastick in Vienna, till the war should be at an end, and they might with safety return into their own country. This resolution was soon taken; they applied for passports that evening, and left the camp the next morning. 
Sick as I was of such a scene of blood, I own I could not leave this prince without reluctance. I see you are desirous that I should give you a character of him; but I must not gratify your curiosity; what I have told you of his actions may convince you, that he is the greatest of men: but humanity is too frail to be able to form any definitive judgment from his past, for his future life. Success may elevate; misfortune may four his mind; and so overthrow that equality of it, which now raises him almost above man. His enemies are numerous and inveterate; his friends few, and hardly steady enough to be relied on: So that his dependance is solely on the attachment 
[Page 199]
of his own subjects, on the strength of his own soul. 
What will be the event of his fortune is not permitted me to conjecture: this only I must say, that if he falls it had been better for his country, for Europe in general, that he had never been born; as his struggles will exhaust their strength, and leave them an easy prey to a foe, (the Turk) whose silence makes them not apprehensive of him, but who laughs in his heart to see them thus do his work, and destroy against each other the forces which might prevent his adding them to the number of the nations which already groan under his yoke. A design which he certainly meditates, and will not lose a moment to put in execution, when the opportunity he watches for is ripe. 

[Page 200]

CHAP. VII. 

Chrysal arrives in Vienna, where he meets an old acquaintance. The history of his master's brother. His mission, labours, and success in England. He is sent to Peru. He disapproves of the precipitancy of the measures carried on there, and returns to Europe to prepare matters better. 
If the immediate scene of the war was shocking, the appearance of the countries around it was rather worse. In the former, the hurry of action kept the mind too busy to attend to every minute distress. But here a dismal desolation opened a field for melancholy reflection, which every object added horrours to. The lands laid waste; the villages in ashes; the inhabitants perishing in the fields and high roads, of wounds, sickness, famine, and every various kind of misery, which the madness of human nature can inflict upon itself. 

[Page 201]
Through such monuments of military glory did we travel to Vienna, where my master and his wife were received with open arms by his brother, who insisted on their living in his house. The scene was here changed from the tumults and wants of war, to all the luxury and ease of peace. 
The moment I saw this ecclesiastick I knew him to have been a member of the convent, to the head of which I had belonged in Peru. This unexpected meeting, at such a distance, raised a curiosity to know the cause of his removal from a place where I thought I had left him settled in all the happiness which riches and sensual pleasures could afford. 
I was not long before this curiosity was gratified; for the very evening after my master's arrival, he led him to walk in his garden, and sitting down under a tree on the brink of a fountain addressed him thus. 
'It is many years, my dearest brother, since I had the happiness of seeing you last. Various have been the climates I have gone through! various the vicissitudes of my fortune since that day! from despair to exultation! from royal affluence and power to apprehension of perishing by famine, or in a prison. Wonder not at my words; I will explain 
[Page 202]
them to you in a short view of my life, which it is necessary I should give you, to prepare you for the participation of secrets, in which your assistance may be employed in establishing the most extensive and firm power, which ever yet was raised upon this globeYou may remember, though you were then very young, that the representations of the Jesuit to whose care our education was committed, made such an impression upon me, that in despight of my father's threats and intreaties, I renounced my patrimony in your favour, and taking only a small sum of money to defray the expences of my journey, went directly to Rome with my tutor, where I readily obtained admission into the Society of Jesus as soon as I had gone through the usual preparatory forms of education. 
'Nothing remarkable happened to me during the first years of my being professed, my studies engrossing my whole time and attention, in which I made such a proficiency, that the general of the order, thought it proper to send me into the world, in the service of the society.' 
'The first stage of my mission was to England, whither I went to counteract 
[Page 203]
the poison which was dispensing against us, by an apostate of our order, who under the pretence of employing his abilities in the service of the society, had been admitted to all the libraries, and suffered to take extracts from all the records of the church. But no sooner had he made such a collection, as he thought sufficient for his purpose, than he fled to England, his native country, where renouncing his vows and religion, he turned the weapons which had been entrusted in his hands for the defence of the church, against her, employing the abstracts he had made to the defamation of the character, and subversion of the power, of the Holy See. 
'My success in this my first negociation, (for in defiance against truth, reason, conscience, and common sense, by plausible insinuations, by forged certificates, or, which was the same thing, by certificates from people who would certifie any thing in their own favour, against a man who attacked the very fundamentals of their power; by bribery, subornation, perjury, and every kind of artifice, I, in a great measure, defeated his design, and overturned the authority of his work;) my success, I say, in this difficult undertaking, 
[Page 204]
for he had gone out from among ourselves, and was versed in our whole science, encouraged the order to continue me in that mission, but in an higher office. 
'The laws, religion, and government of the nation were now the objects assigned to my attacks, in which I laboured with various success for some years, in every character which human volubility could assume. I was a quaker; a methodist; a deist; I wrote for the ministry, or against the government, as the prevailing humour of the day promised attention to my writings. The sea which flows around that island, being not more unsteady than the minds of the inhabitants, nor more liable to be ruffled by the winds of heaven, than they by every breath of popular rumour. 
'I proceeded thus for some time, with various success, till happening to disclose some secret transactions, which were known there only to the persons concerned, and had been communicated to me from abroad, in order to sow dissention between the people and their governors, to the ruin of both; the conscious parties were alarmed, and my intelligence traced so secretly, that I had difficulty 
[Page 205]
to escape by flight, from an ignominous death, which the resentment of those whose ruinous machinations I had thus discovered to their country, would certainly have brought me to. 
'My failing in this attempt, in which thousands had failed before me, was no prejudice to my character, nor in the least lessened me in the opinion of the order. On the contrary, the efforts I had made were so daring, so deeply laid, and so well conducted, that I was now judged a proper person to be employed in greater matters. 
'I was therefore sent, the next year, to what is called the Spanish world, but is really the Jesuit's heaven in America, where matters of the highest moment were just ripe for executionWhen I came there I found things in a forwardness too great for their foundation. The eagerness of some of our people hurrying on events before proper preparation had ensured their success. In short, they were ready to revolt from Spain and Portugal before they had made provisions to support themselves in such an attempt. They wanted European officers, soldiers, arms, and ammunition, for on the natives 
[Page 206]
there is no dependance; but, above all, the time was unfavourable. The powers they meant to attack in this vital part, were at peace with all the world, and consequently at liberty to turn their whole force against them. 
'I therefore counselled them to moderate their zeal, and wait till better preparations, and a more favourable minute should make their success more probable. But they would not hearken to my advice, but attributed it to envy, or want of resolution: on which I left them to their own ill-fortune, and hasted home to provide a remedy, for evils which I could not prevent.' 

[Page 207]

CHAP. VIII. 

Continuation of the Jesuit's discourse. He shews the promising situation of his affairs at present. The concise method by which Spain and Portugal, are to be brought into the war with England. He proposes to his brother to join in the general, that he may accomplish his particular, design. 
'The event has confirmed my opinion; by striking too soon, the blow has been ineffectual. However things, though disconcerted by this precipitancy, are not quite ruined; and care may yet repair the effects of their folly. 
'In this cause I now labour, in concert with others of my brethren in every court of Europe; and I have the satisfaction to think that we have a prospect of success. The only obstacle that retards us at present, is the difficulty of making the courts of Spain and Portugal enter into the war against England. Could we 
[Page 208]
bring this to bear, our work would be easy. The mighty naval power of England will not only prevent their sending over forces to oppress us, before we can establish our power, but will also assist us to carry on the war, to share in the spoil, and distress their enemies. 
'But while the present kings are on the thrones of those kingdoms it will be scarcely possible to bring our designs to perfection, they are so utterly averse to hazarding the consequences of a war, with a nation from whose alliance they receive such advantagesThe first thing therefore which we do must be to remove them. The former has already swallowed his death, though the process will be so slow as to escape suspicion: with the other, such caution is not necessary, nor is there time for it. The arm is already lifted against him, for a stroke that will terrify the world. 
'When these obstacles are removed, the execution of our designs will meet with no farther delay. The successors to these princes we have secured such an influence on, that we can work them to whatever we please, and have already poisoned their minds with prejudices against England. 

[Page 209]
'To provide officers of approved fidelity and experience to command our forces, is the next object of our care. Shall I candidly own to you, that such a length of time and multiplicity of affairs had almost obliterated all my remembrance of my family; but the moment I heard your name mentioned with the respect due to your merits in the present war, a flood of infant fondness melted my heart, and tears of tenderest joy acknowledged that I had a brother. I immediately gave notice to our General, and by his order am empowered to treat thus with you. 
'On my engagement for your fidelity, for your abilities are known to be far superior to any that shall oppose you, I am commissioned to offer you the supreme command of all our forces in this great undertaking. With what joy I make this offer, the pleasure that you would feel in serving your brother, can best enable you to judge. 
'Though I will tell you farther, that mine is raised higher than common feelings can convey a notion of. I have hitherto only unfolded the general design of our order, in which I am but a party, though a principal and material one. 
[Page 210]
But shall I tell you also, that my designs terminate not with their's: as your command will make you master of all their force; and as power is the consequence of that, you will be able to confer it where you please; or indeed rather to retain it in your own hands, while I shall only ease you of the trouble of conducting and establishing the policy of an instant state. 
'This was my motive for writing to you so pressingly to come to me to Vienna. This is the end which I have been labouring for all my life; I am advanced in years, and shall never marry to beget an heir; you are young and will have many. Assist me therefore to acquire a throne, which must descend to your posterity: a throne, which by holding it at first, as under the sovereignty of the order, will soon be established by them, even beyond their own power to shake.' 
'I have now unbosomed myself to my brother, with all the confidence of so near an alliance. You will perhaps wonder at my openness, with one whom I have not seen since he was a child. But I know my own blood will be true to its own interest; I know your character 
[Page 211]
in life: and, above all, I know myself safe from being betrayed, because the information would not be received. 
'Consider, therefore, whether you will embrace this offer! whether you will reign in a splendour that would dazzle the eyes of the greatest prince in Europe, or live here in slavery and dependance! The alternative will not admit a moment's hesitation: I see you yield. I will acquaint our General with it; you and your wife shall remain here with me, till the proper time for all our departure comes, which will depend on circumstances, not yet settled. In the mean time we shall have an opportunity of conferring on these subjects together, and preparing all things for our undertaking in a manner that shall ensure success.' 
Though my master made no reply to this proposal that testified the least disapprobation of it, I could easily see that many parts of the scheme affected him with the strongest abhorrence. At the same time that the offer of royalty was a temptation which shook his resolution, and almost vanquished his virtue. 
His brother saw the conflict in his heart with pleasure: had he yielded readily and without reluctance, he should have withdrawn 
[Page 212]
his confidence from such a depravity of soul; and the struggle convinced him that he was his own, as he knew that the man as well as the woman, who deliberates between virtue and vice, is lost. 
CHAP. IX. 

The Jesuit proceeds to shew the rise of the war in Germany, and explains the motives of the several parties engaged in it, as also of the neutrality observed by some particular states. 
The Jesuit the next evening resumed the conversation, and to remove every doubt of success that might deter his brother from joining in his designs, proceeded thus. 
'My brother, (said he) there is nothing so disgusting to a rational man as the mistakes and blunders which passion, prejudice, pride and ignorance produce in the conduct of all the courts in the world, even ours at Rome not being quite exempt from them, though the freest of all others. As for this of Vienna, it is, at present, 
[Page 213]
a scene, where every absurd, every destructive passion rulesAmong these must you seek for the sources of the present war, that lays all Germany waste; Female pride, piqued by some slighting expressions, from one esteemed inferior in rank, and stimulated by a desire of recovering by surprize, what had been yielded, or rather extorted by treaty, influenced this sagacious court to form designs against the king of Bulgaria, in conjunction with that of Saxony: but the vigilance of that monarch prevented their designs, of which he had timely notice, and before their schemes were ripe for execution, he boldly attacked them, and so anticipated the blow meditated against him. 
'So daring a step surprized all Europe, and influenced many who were unacquainted with the motives of it, to take part against him, while more did for private advantageOf these France was the first; who concluding a league with her ancient enemy, in despight of family animosity, has entered into a war, that seems not to concern her at all; nor indeed does it in the obvious consequences of it, but she has farther designs in view, and in return for the assistance she gives 
[Page 214]
to crush this prince, is to receive from the house of Austria these dominions in the Netherlands, which have cost the greatest part of Europe such deluges of blood, for above a century, to keep out of her hands: while this court, inattentive to the consequences that must attend France's getting possession of these long-contested places, has blindly, basely entered into a league with a family that has been labouring her ruin for so many ages, and betrayed the confidence of all the states, who have supported her in them'The other nations who have acceded to this alliance, have acted from motives merely mercenary in the first view, fighting for the pay promised them by the Imperial and French courts, the latter of whom has stretched her generosity so far, as to undertake supporting her new ally with money as well as men. 
'But it is not improbable, that they may all be disappointed, and the king of Bulgaria not only escape the ruin meditated against him, but also retort it on the machinators; one of the principal of whom the Saxon has already had abundant cause to repent of his undertaking. As for this court it now fights pro aris and focis, as may be said, for if that 
[Page 215]
hero is victorious, nothing less is to be expected here, than the total loss of the imperial dignity, of whose authority there want not many instances of the most flagrant abuse, to vindicate such a revolution. 
'But of all the effects of this unnatural combination, there is not one more base than the ingratitude with which this court has behaved to that of England, whose blood and treasure have often supported it against the very power of France, when every other human assistance had deserted it; and established it in its present grandeur, almost at the price of its own ruin'But now all those benefits are forgot, and because England will not tamely look on, (if not perhaps assist) to see the fabrick, which she has erected at so vast an expence, overturned to gratify a blind caprice, and a prince allied to her by blood and interest, sacrificed to avarice and pride, all her former services are held as cancelled, and herself treated with the rancour of the greatest enemy. 
'While England thus supports her character of generosity and acts with prudence; the Dutch, as if infatuated, stand quietly to see the barrier, which cost themselves even so much in erecting for 
[Page 216]
their defence, thus given away to the very power against whom it was erected; and who, they cannot be insensible, means nothing less than their ruin, as soon as it can strike the blow, to effect. But such is the degeneracy of that people, from every sentiment of virtue, publick and private, that they will not give up the opportunity of present gain, to save their state from so evident, so imminent ruin; vainly perhaps expecting that England will still pursue the schemes of knighterrantry, which have so long made her fight the quarrels of her neighbours, while they themselves looked on almost as if unconcerned in the event; and will be moved by the cries of the distressed states, to remedy the mistakes, and repair the losses of their High-Mightinesses. 
'While every other state in Europe is thus employed, Spain and Portugal enjoy all the advantages of peace, prudently taking no part in a war which does not in the least concern them. Of these, the former like the old lion in the fable, is only terrible to ignorant apprehension, on account of what it has been, and is now pacifick and harmless, because it no longer has the power of doing harm. Sensible 
[Page 217]
of this weakness, it sleeps in the shadow of a mighty name, and mixes not in disputes which must only draw it into difficulties, without any prospect of advantage to engage it in the attempt. But it must not be let to enjoy this state of tranquility so contrary to our designs any longer; and as the present government there is determined to persist in the measures that support it, it must be overturned to make way for those who will be more obedient to our advice. 
'A method which we must also pursue with Portugal, for though its strength is almost beneath the rank of an independant, much less a royal state, yet upon the account of its wealth, which might hire forces to oppress us, it must be worked up, to take the same step, and break with England, as I have said before, to which it has already made large advances, by several most unjust, and injudicious encroachments, on the trade of that nation. 
'As for the war between France and England, it arises solely from the contradiction between the interests of the two nations, which nature has set in an opposition impossible to be reconciled. But the seat of this war is so remote from 
[Page 218]
hence, that it would have no influence on the affairs of Europe, did not the successes of the English prevent France from giving the assistance that was expected, and might be effectual to the designs of this court, for they have so absolutely ruined her trade, that she is no longer able to fulfil her engagements with Russia particularly, and the several courts of Germany, whom she undertook to pay, for fighting the quarrel of her ally; so that the former, who had no other motive but the money, for entering into the war at first, will of course, and the latter must of necessity desert that cause, not having any internal support of their own, since this has failed them. Indeed the Russians, finding all the mighty promises which were made them, vanish into air, begin to be sick of their bargain already, and long again for the solid advantages of their alliance with England. As for this court, it is now making its last effort, and if this is eluded or defeated, it has no other resource, than shamefully to receive the law from a prince, upon whom it made so unjust an attempt.' 

[Page 219]

CHAP. X. 

Conclusion of the Jesuit's discourse. His systems of morality and religion. His brother yields to his arguments, with some particular exceptions. Chrysal changes his service. 
This short but distinct view of the present situation of the affairs of Europe must convince you, that a general peace must soon be concluded, the parties that would, not being able to, continue the war much longer; and therefore we must be speedy in the execution of our designs, or the opportunity will be lost, for it would be impossible to make even the pride of Spain, or the avarice of Portugal, take the measures we want, at a time when England is disingaged from other enemies. I have drawn this sketch to shew you, that our designs are not rashly undertaken, but the result of the deepest knowledge and insight into things. This must remove every scruple that may arise from doubt of successBut there 
[Page 220]
is one thing more, which must be explained, to remove prejudices of another nature, which may perhaps represent our undertaking in a wrong light to you; and this is to evince the justice of it, and of the means designed to accomplish its successBut of this matter you must not pretend to judge by the vulgar rules, obtruded by design, upon the ignorance of the world, and which no wise man observes, who has it in his power to break them with impunityMan is thrown into this world by nature, to obtain his own happiness, by every means within his power: this is too sublime a truth for vulgar knowledge, as it would put an end to the delusion, by which the wise few keep the herd of mankind in ignorance and subjection. 
'But that it is really the truth, and as such made the rule of action, by all the states and princes in the world, will not be denied, nor even doubted by any one, who has considered the systems of policy and government, which are and ever have been, established by them. 
'For if it was not an undoubted maxim, that power constitutes the rule of justice, how inconsistent would be the actions of all mankind? How could a state devise 
[Page 221]
laws to punish the man with death, who goes into his neighbour's field, and steals his ox, and, at the same time, send armies to invade, spoil, and depopulate the territories of their neighbours? How could a poor pirate be hanged for robbing a single ship, and fleets immediately after sent avowedly to destroy the whole trade of the same nation? If a state of war is alledged, that is the very imposition of which I spoke. Every man has as good a natural right to declare war with his neighbour, as the state he lives in has with another state; and every right that is not natural, is an usurpation, and void. This is the true philosophy of life, stripped of the idle dreams of enthusiasm, and selfish misrepresentations of design. 
'As for religion, look over the whole race of mankind, and try if you can find one who practises what he professes: this is an incontestible proof, that none believe it; as it is also that there is no necessity they should, else would the want of faith and obedience be punished, by that power which is thought to enjoin them; whereas, on the contrary, it is always most successful, as it affords means, which those restraints forbid. 
[Page 222]
I observed that in the beginning of our conversation on this subject, you seemed shocked at my mentioning the necessity of removing the persons who oppose our designs, and particularly when I said, the Spaniard had swallowed his death. But this is all prejudice, and want of extending your view beyond the surface of things. 
'For how much better is the method we take, of striking the single person against whom our design is levelled, than that pursued, not only without reproach, but even encouraged by applause, of involving the innocent with the guilty, (innocent I mean in respect to us) and laying waste whole nations to bring a prince to death? How much better would it have been for this court to have removed the king of Bulgaria by poison, or a dagger, than to have destroyed millions, as they have done in the pursuit of his death, by this destructive war? This is demonstration! this is conviction to him who dares open his eyes to see it! Judge now of our undertaking by this invariable system, and shew me one objection to it.' 
This long dissertation was not delivered at one time; it was the substance of many 
[Page 223]
conversations, by which the Jesuit so wrought upon his brother, that he resigned himself wholly to his disposal, and entered sincerely into his designs. The only objection he made, and that was not urged against him, was, to being any way concerned in the compendious warfare of the society, the prejudice of education being still so strong with him, that he could not yet abstract things so nicely, as to consider assassination, in any other light than as a crime. 
I had been in this state of speculation about a week, for my master never stirred out, as he made sickness his excuse for quitting the service, when his brother having occasion for some money to send to Lisbon, on the grand design, the bag in which I was, was ordered for that service; the brothers having joined their fortunes, as well as their endeavours, in the promotion of itI now changed my master again, and set out for Lisbon, in the possession of one of the society, who was to deliver us to a particular person there. 

[Page 224]

CHAP. XI. 

Chrysal arrives at Lisbon, where he comes into the possession of a former acquaintance. His master makes the great attempt without success. Several of the nobility are sacrificed to other motives, on a pretence of being guilty of this fact. Chrysal's master is at length taken up. Chrysal changes his service. 
There was nothing remarkable in my journey; but that was amply made amends for, at the end of it. 
If I was surprized at meeting a Peruvian acquaintance at Vienna, I was no less so, when I found that the person to whom he sent me in Lisbon was the very captain, of whose miraculous conversion, after the rape and murder of his brother's wife, I gave you an account, in the beginning of this relation, whom I found to be the man chosen for the great attempt, the proof which he had given of his capacity in that affair, having raised their opinion of him 
[Page 225]
so high, as to make them think him the only proper person for this. 
I did not remain long in a state of speculation in the possession of this master; the orders which were brought along with me, were all that was waited for, to accelerate the execution of the design. Accordingly the blow was struck a few nights after, but in the confusion, inseparable from such attempts, without effect. 
The king was shot in his coach, as he returned one night from a love-assignation, at some distance from his palace, by my master, who had way-laid him at a proper place, and fired a blunderbuss, loaded with small balls, at him, through the back of the coach. 
By an instantaneous stupefaction of fear, which is often taken for resolution, and presence of mind, the king fell down in the coach, and spoke not a word, which made my master conclude the work done, and so prevented a repetition of the blow. 
But what was his confusion the next morning, when he found that the king, though severely wounded, was likely to recover. The opportunity was lost, nor was it probable, that another should offer, till it would be too late. However, he attended the event, so far safe, that no one 
[Page 226]
could endanger his safety by betraying him there being no person there, not even of the order, privy to the action: for secrets of this importance are always entrusted to as few as possible. 
While he thus calmly looked on, as an unconcerned spectator, it is impossible to describe the distraction that reigned all over the city, where every person suspected his neighbour, and was almost afraid to converse with his brother, for fear of being suspected of a participation in a crime, of which he knew not the person guilty. 
At court, in the mean time, the most mysterious silence was observed, and all conversation on the subject discouraged. This was thought to be the most probable way of coming to the knowledge of so dark an affair; as their spies could thereby mix with the people with less suspicion, and make their observations with the greater certainty, when they should be off their guard. 
Not that they were at a loss to think from whence the blow had come; but by whom it was struck was the difficulty to find out, that so they might found their proceedings on an evidence of justice, for 
[Page 227]
the Jesuits were too mighty a body to be attacked upon an uncertainty. 
The reason for suspecting them of this fact was, that upon the miscarriage of their premature attempt in America, the king was so incensed against the whole society, that he dismissed them from the direction of his conscience, and every other place and employment about his person and court. 
Such an indignity he was sensible must alarm the resentment of a set of men not remarkable for patience, or forgiving affronts, he had therefore taken every precaution to guard against them as far as human prudence could direct his fears, which was only against disturbances in the state, for of such an attempt as this he could not suspect them. 
While things hung in this suspence, I had an opportunity of seeing into the character of the people I was among; but human language wants force to describe them. 
I have already given you the genuine character of the Dutch; to that let us add, poverty, pride, superstition, bigotry, and its inseparable attendant, cruelty, and they will give you some idea of the present Portuguese. A people of whom it is hard 
[Page 228]
to say, whether to abstracted speculation they are more ridiculous or execrable, the struggle between their follies and vices is so unremitted and so strong. 
A little before I arrived there the city had been reduced to ashes by lightening, and before they had recovered from the consternation which such a misfortune threw them into, they received an account of the capital of their American dominions being swallowed by an earthquake. 
Such signal instances of the wrath of heaven might have been expected to alarm their consciences to look for the causes of it, in their vices, and to try to avert it by repentance and amendment. But instead of that, the first proof they gave of coming to their reason, (or I should rather say of coming to themselves, for reason it was not) after their fright, was to attribute these misfortunes to a relaxation in superstitious severity, and to demand as victims to it, the only people under heaven, whose good-nature had given effectual relief to their distress. 
At length, after a calm so long, that people began to think the storm was quite allayed, it broke out with a fury, that amazed not only the unhappy heads on 
[Page 229]
which it burst but also the whole nation beside. 
I told you that the attempt had been made upon the king, as he was returning from a love-meeting. The person with whom he had been was descended from the first, and related or allied to all the greatest families in his kingdom. 
In a country, whose characteristicks are pride and revenge, such an intercourse must be dangerous even to royalty, as the honour of all those families seemed to be wounded through her. Accordingly a rumour of her being with child having extorted some inadvertent, illative, general menaces from some of her relations, as the fact was really so, the conscious apprehensions of the king were alarmed; and as he could not declare the true reason of them, he made a pretence of the assassination; the charge of which received some appearance of probability, from the very circumstance which now occasioned its being brought against them, it being known that he was returning from that lady, at the very time when the attempt was made upon him. 
Thus to the fear of danger arising from a real crime were the greatest subjects in the kingdom to be sacrificed, on a pretence 
[Page 230]
of guilt, which their very accusers believed them innocent of. For before they were apprehended, their ruin was resolved on, which was not a little forwarded by the opportunity which it gave the king of seizing all their vast possessions, and thereby repairing the losses he had suffered in the late calamities. 
Accordingly, after suffering every torture which human ingenuity could invent, to make them confess a guilt of which they were not even suspected; they were publickly executed in the most ignominious and cruel manner, in the sight of an astonished people, without any proof being given of their guilt, beside the bare affirmations and strained inferences of those who were both accusers and judges, and also reaped the profits of their ruin. 
Such scenes as this are too horrid to be dwelt on: I shall therefore return to my master, with whom I had an opportunity of coming to the knowledge of every transaction relative to this mysterious affair, the miscarriage of his attempt having made it unnecessary for him, to disburse the money, among which I came to him, and by that means continued me so long in his possession. 

[Page 231]
Could any thing have heightened the opinion, my first knowledge of him gave me, it must have been to see him, an unconcerned spectator of the sufferings of those unhappy victims to his guilt, and to hear him argue for the justice of their punishment. 
But his triumph was not long; secret and inscrutable as the Jesuits imagined they had laid their schemes, the king either received, or pretended to have received, such information of them as confirmed, by a multitude of facts, not to be denied, gave an appearance of probability and justice to their being charged as accomplices with the unhappy nobles, and treated with the utmost severity. A step, that could not have been taken on such grounds, while these nobles were alive and at liberty, or the people in spirits to exert the influence of their prejudices in their behalf. But the favourable minute was come to strike at the root of ecclesiastical tyranny, and deliver both king and people from a yoke, under which they had so long blindly groaned, that at length, they thought it just and natural. 
Accordingly, in the midst of his security, my master was seized, and hurried away to a prison, with the rest of his brethren; 
[Page 232]
and all his papers and effects secured for the government. Of the former, they could make but little use, as it is an invariable rule with all the order, never to keep any by them, whose discovery may endanger them, or their designs; but the latter were turned to ready account. 
In this dissipation I fell to the lot of one of the officers, who in his search, took an opportunity to secrete the bag, in which I was, and that very night lodged his acquisition with a banker, for fear of detection. 

[Page 233]

CHAP. XII. 

Chrysal meets another acquaintance at his new master's. Conclusion of the history of honest Aminadab. Adventures of his son. He enters into business at Lisbon, in which Chrysal suffers a great misfortune. His ingratitude to his uncle justly rewarded. Chrysal enters into a new service. 
I Was scarce settled in the possession of my new master, whom I found to be a concealed Jew, when I saw a person enter his compting-house, the sight of whom made me almost distrust my senses. Nor was the surprize of my master less, 'O, God of Abraham, (said he) is not that the son of my brother Aminadab? Where hast thou been? And where is thy father? He has been sought from Dan to Beersheba! his spoiling that gentile, that Egyptian woman has been a joy to all the brethren! but I am amazed to see thee here; I hope he is safe out of the reach of every Christian power.' 

[Page 234]
'O, brother of my father, (replied the son of Aminadab) mention not that unhappy affair, if thou hast not a mind to kill thy wretched nephew with grief. My father is dead!' -'But where is the wealth, nephew, (interrupted my master hastily) where is the wealth?' -'All lost! all buried with him in the bottom of the ocean, (replied the nephew.)- 'All lost! The wealth all lost! O my brother! O Aminadab my brother! my brother! since the destruction of Jerusalem there fell not such a misfortune on our tribe! The wealth all lost! O Aminadab my brother! my brother!' -'Alas, my father, I faint through weariness, weakness, and hunger; I have not eaten bread this day; let us retire into the inner chamber, and when my soul is refreshed with a morsel of bread, and a drop of water, I will put ashes on my head, and ungird my loins, and then unfold the whole unhappy story to thee.' 
The repast was literally what he had asked; and as soon as it was ended, and the young Aminadab and his uncle seated on the floor together, in the posture of mourning, the former proceeded thus. 
'By the letters which my father wrote to thee from England, in the sacred cypher 
[Page 235]
of our family, thou wer't informed of his intended return into his native land of Africa, and invited to meet him at Tetuan, and share in his fortune. This he told me, while we were upon our voyage; but thy better angel prevented thee, and saved thee the labour and loss of such a journey in vain. 
'The ship on board which we unfortunately embarked was a Dutchman, bound for the coast of Italy, but was to land us at Gibraltar, from whence we knew we could get an immediate passage over. But behold, when we were just in view of the port; when the sight of his native land made the soul of my father rejoice, and we thought of nothing but safety and content, a Sallee rover gave chace to our ship. The Dutch captain immediately crouded all the sail he could to escape; but the wind dying away, and the pirate gaining upon us, with his oars, he came to my father with tears in his eyes, and told him that we were all ruined, for he had neglected to bring a pass. 
'This news was like a clap of thunder to my father, who too well knew the consequence of their finding such a mass of wealth in his possession!' 'Wretch that 
[Page 236]
I am, (exclaimed he) why did I venture with one of thy sordid nation? slaves to Mammon, who would hazard liberty and fortune to save such a trifle.' Then turning about and going into his cabbin, he stood some moments, as if lost in thought, when bursting into an extatick rage, he snatched up the coffer, in which his gold and jewels were, from under the head of his bed, and embracing it eagerly, 'I have gained thee, (said he) I have earned thee with anxiety and toil; and I will not lose thee now! -O Jonas send thy whale to receive me; and bear me to the land of my fathers. I will not be a laughing stock to the Gentiles, nor a bye-word in my father's house.' -'Saying which words he rushed upon the deck, and before any person could possibly prevent him, he plunged into the sea, with the coffer in his arms, and was never seen more. 
'While all stood amazed at his rashness, the heavens, as if appeased with the sacrifice, immediately sent a wind, that filled our fluttering sails, and soon bore the ship, delivered thus of its Jonas, out of the reach of the enemies. You may better conceive than I can describe, the situation I was in, at this event: I prostrated myself on the shore when we 
[Page 237]
landed at Gibraltar, and bewailed my misfortune with tears and lamentations. But this afforded no relief to my distress; and something I must do, to earn a morsel of bread. I therefore sold all my superfluous raiment for four ducats, for all our money was in the coffer, and with these did I purchase some eggs and fruits, which I sold again in the garrison, to support my life, till I should have an opportunity of coming to thee, my father, for advice and assistance in this distress; and now behold these four ducats are become twelve ducats in my hands, and that is all my worldly wealth.' 
The uncle covered his face with his hands, and remained silent some time. At length he spoke to his nephew, in these words, 'It is in vain, O son of my brother, to mourn for what is not to be remedied; holy David wept no longer for his child after he was dead: let us therefore arise and think of something, that may, if not retrieve thy mighty loss, at least administer relief to thy distress. Thou hast been initiated in the mysterious art of lessening the weight, without effacing the image, on the golden coins of these idolaters. This was the first rise of thy father, who began the world as poor as 
[Page 238]
thou art now; till his unwearied industry, in this practice, raised him from want. Follow thou therefore his example; and may the God of thy fathers give thee the same success, but with an happier blessing than he found. 
'And lo! fortunately it has happened, that I have this very hour received a large quantity of the coin of Britain, all new from the mint. On that therefore thou may'st begin thine endeavours, and the fourth part of the produce of this labour shall be thine: I was just going to have sent for another, who always works for me, for a fifth; but I am willing to give thee a profit extraordinary to encourage thee. 
'Thine earnings in this business will soon produce thee a considerable sum, with which thou may'st go privately to London and purchase old cloaths, which will bring great profit in Germany, as soon as this war shall be at an end. 
'Till thou art able to provide for thy self thou may'st eat bread here, and sleep under the shadow of my roof: be not dejected; honest industry never fails of success.' 
The young Aminadab was no sooner introduced thus into a way of honest industry, 
[Page 239]
than he seemed to forget his loss, and settled himself most intently to work. I fell one of the first sacrifices to his art, which deprived me of a fourth part of my weight, and of all my beauty, nor did my companions fare much better; so that from a thousand of us, who were in the bag, his share of the spoil was a treasure, on which he immediately commenced merchant, stocking a box with all the gawdy trinkets which could allure the ignorant, and give him an opportunity of exerting his talents of imposition. 
You have often heard me mention the beauty of my figure with pleasure; but, alas, vain boast! it was now no more! I came from this fiery trial with all the marks of age, and infirmity so strong upon me, that I could not forbear comparing myself and my companions to a number of British soldiers, just come from Soup Maigre and straw, in a French prisonIn this mutilated condition I was made up in a parcel, to be sent to England, against whom this trade was mostly carried on, there being no other nation who would receive their own coin, under the disgrace of such diminishing. But before I could be sent off, an accident happened in the family of my 
[Page 240]
master, the banker, which gave me a longer delay in Lisbon. 
I have told you that in secret he was a Jew, though the prospect of gain made him profess christianity, in despight of the horrours of the inquisition. But happy had it been for him that he had not made such profession; or that his nephew had been drowned with his father. 
For no sooner had his gains, in his art of diminishing, restored him a little to his spirits, than thinking his portion of that profit too little, and insufficient beside, to raise him to opulence so suddenly as he desired, he cast about how to acquire the whole, or at least a large part of his uncle's wealth at once. 
He therefore took a proper place to work in, for his merchandize did not interrupt him in his main business, at some distance from his uncle's house, and having conveyed a large sum of money thither to work upon, he directly informed the holy office of his uncle's Judaism, with directions how to detect him in it, concluding that when he should be seized, there would be no enquiry made after the money that was in his own hands; as he knew it was impossible he should ever escape from thence. And though this was but a poor 
[Page 241]
pittance in comparison of the sums which he knew would be forfeited, yet he comforted himself with the thought that it was more than he could any other way hope to obtain from him. 
But he was deceived by his avarice, and justly involved in the ruin, which he drew upon his benefactor. For when the officers of the inquisition took possession of his uncle's effects, finding an entry in his books of the money in his hands, they went directly in quest of it, and that so unexpectedly, that they caught him at his work, beyond a possibility of evasion or escape. 
This is a crime never forgiven in any state. He was therefore immediately delivered up to the civil power, from which he received a death not less cruel than that of his uncle, from the inquisition. 
Of all the human sufferings I had yet seen, except in the case of the sacrificers this gave me the greatest pleasure, as there is no crime that can deform the heart of man more than ingratitude. 
I here changed my service of course, and entered into that of the holy office, to the judge of which I was delivered the day I was taken out of the possession of the unfortunate JewI have before given you my sentiments on the absurdity of thinking 
[Page 242]
to please the deity, by cruelty to his creatures, in the instance of the human Passover of the Jews. The same arguments will hold here, and with this additional force, that cruelty of every kind is, if possible, more absurd under the christian dispensation than any other, as beside the general laws of nature and reason, the particular laws of christianity do every where clearly and expresly command brotherly love, tenderness and compassion, forbidding every appearance of cruelty, under the severest denunciations of wrath. 
But there has been so much and that so well said on this subject already; and the nature of the sufferings of those unhappy wretches who are brought before this tribunal is so well known, that I shall spare myself the pain of the repetition, and only mention one affair, the circumstances of which appeared singularly affecting to me. 

[Page 243]

CHAP. XIII. 

An uncommon criminal appears at the tribunal of the holy office. A love scene in a strange place. The history of Pheron and Ilissa. 
The next day after I came into the possession of the inquisitor, there appeared at his tribunal a person of a most august presence, though overcast with all the melancholy which his unhappy situation could inspire. He seemed to be advanced in years, but not past the vigour of life, and was distinguished from the national look of the Portuguese, by an uncommon turn of feature, which shewed him of another people. 
As soon as he was brought to the place appointed for him, the inquisitor, with an aweful solemnity in his voice and manner, addressed him thus, 'Thou art once more brought to this tribunal, to try if the stubbornness of thine heart has yet relented, and thou wilt confess thy guilt.' -'I told thee before O judge of the faith 
[Page 244]
of christians; (replied the prisoner, with a composed look and determined voice) I told thee before, and I repeat it again, that I am not conscious of any thing that should incur the censure of this tribunal; nor shall all the tortures which the inventive cruelty of man can inflict upon this wretched body, make me lie against mine immortal soul, or acknowledge guilt to which I am a stranger. But tell me of what I am accused, and my conscience shall direct my lips to answer thee the truth. Perhaps I may unwittingly have erred; thou knowest that I have not always professed the christian faith, according to the laws established here: pardon then the errors of mine ignorance, and instruct me to avoid the like for the future. And, O I adjure thee by thy christian faith, to relieve my heart from the anxiety that tears it, for the fate of my daughter! O, let me know'- 
His adjuration was broken off at these words, by the officers of the court, and his answer not being satisfactory, he was remanded back to prison, without any farther questions, with the strongest menaces of severity; though in secret the judge ordered him to be treated with tenderness and respect, and supplied with every comfort 
[Page 245]
and convenience of life, that could mitigate the horrours of a prison. 
My master then withdrew, and changing his judicial robes for a more convenient and splendid dress, retired to his own apartments, where after the respectful ceremony of sending to desire admission, he went into a particular chamber, in which was a young female, whom he approached with all the timid tenderness of love. 'I have seen thy father my dearest Ilissa, (said he) and he is well; nor shall any human means be wanting to preserve him so.' 
'Why then may I not see him? (replied the lady) how can I trust thy words, who hast already deceived me?' -'Thou knowest, my love, (returned he) that thy request is impossible; and if I have deceived thee, by promising compliance with it, it was only to calm the transports of thy passion, that in a cooler moment, thou mightest hearken to the voice of love and happiness.' -'Mention not happiness to me in this place! Can happiness be without liberty? Is a prison the proper scene for love? But I will be deceived no longer! I will see my father, or I will not live. Grant me this request and expect my gratitude. Thou knowest that for myself I fear not thy power! thou knowest that 
[Page 246]
immediate death is ever in my reach; trifle not therefore with me any longer; restore me to my father; restore us both to liberty; and then, then only, speak to me of love.' -'Thou hast conquered my Ilissa! thou hast conquered! your father shall be restored to you; and we will all fly together to thy native land, where we shall live in happiness: but this cannot be compassed on a sudden; it will require both time and address to secure our retreat. But when I have done this for my Ilissa, can I be sure of her love? Will her heart return the sacrifice I make?' -'I have told thee that my heart is grateful; I tell thee now it is not insensible to softer passions: urge me no farther; when I am freed from this prison, and my father is present to give the sanction of his authority to my actions, I promise thee to become thy wife. And my inclination, which has never yet contradicted my duty, will not find it difficult to pay the love I promise, at the altar.' 
These words raised my master's heart into an extasy; he prostrated himself at her feet, he kissed her hand, and swore eternal love. 
The rest of the day was spent in forming schemes for their escape, and planning 
[Page 247]
scenes of future happiness; in the prospect of which, their unequal years seemed to raise no cloud. The lady appeared to be about eighteen: her beauty, though very great, was rather majestic than soft; different from the Bohemian lady I mentioned before, an air of grandeur kept every one around her at an aweful distance, and the flash of her eye, like lightning, terrified the heart it warmed. Her lover was just past his meridian, but still in all the vigour of his life, and far from disagreeable in his appearance or conversation. 
There was something so extraordinary in this affair, that it raised my strongest curiosity to know the circumstances of it; nor was I long at a loss. In the happiness of his heart, that evening my master presented a jewel of immense value to the lady, from whom, in the way of gallantry, he asked a tablet, cased with gold, as a return. 
The lady refused not his request, but at giving it, desired that he would be careful of it, as she esteemed it much beyond its apparent value, it having been given her by her father. 
The moment I heard her say this, and saw him put the tablet in his pocket, I knew my curiosity would be gratified by 
[Page 248]
the spirit of the golden case. As soon, therefore, as my master retired to rest, I entered directly into his heart, and summoning, by our sympathetick impulse, the spirit I wanted, I shewed him my curiosity, which he complied with, by a look which signified these words'There is something so extraordinary in the whole history of the persons, who have raised your curiosity, that it will be necessary to trace it from the beginning, to give you the satisfaction you desire. 
'The father of the young lady, who gave me to our master, is the person whom you saw this morning at his tribunal. His name, in his own country, was Pheron; he is a native of Abissinia, where his ancestors have possessed ample territories for many ages, being descended from the race of their kings. 
'From the first dawn of reason in the mind of Pheron, he shewed the strongest desire for knowledge, and the steadiest attachment to virtue. The advances of human knowledge have not been so great in those countries as here; yet natural reason has been able to discover the sublime truths of morality; the practice of which is called wisdom, and the time consumed here in fruitless speculation, 
[Page 249]
devoted to it; by which means, if men are not so knowing, they are certainly more wiseIn this happy employment passed the first years of the youth of Pheron, till riper manhood calling him to the service of his country, he went at the head of his father's vassals, to repel the invasions of the Ethiopians. 
'His success was so great in this first essay of his arms, that he not only repelled the invaders, but also carried the war into their own country, where, after many victories, he compelled them to sue for peace. 
'The same of his actions soon reached the ear of his sovereign, who sent for him to his court, and rewarded his services, by giving him his sister in marriage. Dignities in those countries are not prostituted to the support of luxury and idleness. Pheron returned home with his bride, to govern and protect his people, who, safe in his care, pursued their usual occupations; war not being made there a constant profession, nor the gratification of the worst passions of human nature reduced into a science, and practised by rule. 
'The peace which Pheron had made was not injurious to his enemies, and therefore 
[Page 250]
was preserved by them, which gave him leisure to attend to the improvement of his country, and instruction of his people. 
'He had lived in this happy state some years, when there arrived a person in his country, who gave an unexpected turn to his affairs. The situation of those nations is such, that the inhabitants themselves rarely ever travel; nor is the face of a stranger seen in an age among them. This made the arrival of this man the more taken notice of; he was immediately introduced to Pheron, to whose friendship, his knowledge, in several branches of science, soon recommended him. 
'When the stranger had thus established an interest with him, he at length disclosed to him the motive of his coming into a country so remote from his own; he told him, that he had undertaken this hazardous and painful journey in pure obedience to the divine command of instructing the ignorant in the knowledge of salvation. He explained to him the mysteries of the christian religion; the hierarchy of Rome; the divine foundation of its power; and the several orders in its government, in so forcible a manner, 
[Page 251]
that he soon made a convert of him. 
'Pheron had always adored the name of Christ, but never till now knew what it was to be a christian. One only book of his gospel had he ever seen, and from that he could understand no more, than that faith in the death of Christ for the redemption of mankind, and obedience to the self evident laws of morality, with the pious worship of the one God alone, was the whole religion taught by himIt is not strange therefore, if the glorious fabrick of the church, as represented by this Jesuit, for such he was, had all the effect he could desire upon him, the naturally inquisitive turn of his mind making him listen with eagerness to every thing which seemed to open a new prospect to itNor was he content with his own knowing those sublime doctrines; he also instructed his wife, whom he tenderly loved, and their example converted the greatest part of his people; for nothing could prevail upon him to attempt forcing their assentBut this did not satisfy him; the descriptions which he had heard of the learning, piety, and glory of Rome had filled his soul with an ardent desire to see that metropolis of the world, that he 
[Page 252]
might learn its virtues, and transplant them into his own country. He communicated this thought to his instructor, who fired with the glory of such a proselyte, encouraged him in it, by every argument he could useThis determined his resolution to make an attempt, the hazards of which would be rewarded with such happy consequences. He therefore prepared all things for his journey, in which his wife would bear him company, and also bring her only child, the lady whom you saw to day, to receive the benediction of his holiness, and committing the government of his people to his brother, and taking jewels and gold to an immense value to defray the expences of his journey, he set out with a company sufficient to protect him from the dangers of travelling through such inhospitable countries, and arrived without any accident at the Red Sea, where he embarked on board a ship for Alexandria. 
'While he waited here for a ship bound to Italy, the plague deprived him of his instructor and his wife. He was at first inconsolable for his loss; but virtue soon awoke reason to his guard; and his care for his daughter made him careful for himselfHis attendants would have 
[Page 253]
perswaded him to return directly home, as he had lost his guide; but the loss of his wife made the thought of home a torture to him. He therefore sent them back, and resolved to settle his daughter in a convent, and enter into the monastick life himself at Rome. 
'With this design he embarked in the first ship that sailed for Europe, not being able to bear the sight of a place, which had been so fatal to him. The ship was bound to this place, but for a large sum of money, the commander engaged to land him at Leghorn, but happening to come to the knowledge of his wealth on the passage, he brought him directly hither, where he was no sooner landed, than he informed the inquisitor, who is his brother, who immediately seized both Pheron and his daughter, for errours in their opinions, and confined them in the prisons of the holy office, where they have now been above a year. 
'The first motive of this outrage was the stranger's wealth, an unpardonable crime in that court; and which would soon have brought them to an unhappy death. But the beauty of the daughter has hitherto deferr'd their fate; and by 
[Page 254]
what you overheard to day may probably prevent it entirely.' 
CHAP. XIV. 

The love-adventure continued. The inquisitor visits Pheron, and obtains his consent. He employs an English sailour, whom he sets at liberty, to assist him in his designs. 
The inquisitor's heart was too full of love to let him sleep long; he arose about midnight, and taking the keys of the prison, which were every night deposited with him, he went directly to visit the father of Ilissa. 
He found him wrapped in so profound a sleep, that his approach did not awake him; a sight so unusual in those mansions of despair astonished him; he paused a moment in admiration, gazing at him, to try if he could trace that virtue in his face, which made his heart superiour to such terrours. 
Just then a smile of indignation flash'd over the face of Pheron; and in the illusion 
[Page 255]
of imagination, he cried out, 'It is in vain! my conscience is secure, and I despise your tortures.' -As he said these words the working of his mind awoke him, when seeing my master standing at the side of his bed, the scene seemed to him, in his surprize, to be continued, and he proceeded thus'I have told thee, that thy tortures should not bend my soul to falshood; and now thou shalt find it so.' 
'O father of Ilissa, (returned my master, melted into tenderness at such a sight) I come not to give thee torture! I bring the balm of comfort to thy soul!' - 'Art not thou the inquisitor?' -'I am, O Pheron, and thy friend.' -'Am I awake? is this, or was the former but a dream? guard me good heaven! let me not fall from virtue!' -'Such virtue ever is the care of heaven! Pheron behold thy friend! the proselyte of thy virtuesThe time admits not many words; I come to offer thee liberty, and concert with thee the methods for our obtaining happiness. Thy Ilissa'-'Heaven guard my child!' - 'Thy Ilissa is well; and happy in her father's welfare!' -'O my child! my child! but shall I ever see her again?' -'You shall; she shall be restored to your bosom, 
[Page 256]
and never torn from it more.' - 'Good, gracious judge! O, when? O, how? -My child! my child!' -'Suppress your joy a moment; the beauties of Ilissa have triumphed over the malice of her fate! she has found a lover, who offers happiness to her and you.' -'Does my child love him? Is he an honest man?' -'His life will prove him such! he offers to restore you and your Ilissa to liberty, and to accompany you both to your native country, for there can be no safety in Europe for you, after you leave this place; your escape from whence, and every circumstance relating to your return, shall be his care. Nor will he demand the reward his heart pants for, till your safety shall remove every fear, every doubt of his sincerity.' 
'O name the generous man!' -'Behold him at your feet! receive me for your son.' -'Thee! the inquisitor! who threatened me with torture!' -'But treated thee with tenderness, treated Ilissa with respect.' -'Make me know that!' -'I ask no favour but on that condition; if I procure liberty for you and your Ilissa; if I restore you to your native land and accompany you thither; if your Ilissa acknowledges the services of my love, 
[Page 257]
and asks your consent to reward them, will you confirm my bliss and own me for your son?' -'I will, and thank kind heaven that gives me such a son.' 
Saying this, he embraced my master, who in a few words let him know the scheme he had formed for their escape, and then left him to his happy reflections, while he went to prosecute it. 
In one of the cells of the inquisition, there was confined an English seaman, who had been seized and secretly conveyed thither for some disrespectful expressions against the divinity of Saint Dominick. 
The manly, modest resolution, with which he had refused to own the authority of their tribunal, and his firmness under the first tortures, marked him out to the inquisitor, as the person proper for his design; for he would not trust any one of his own country, not even his brother, whose treachery to Pheron he now abhorred. 
As soon as he opened the door of his cell, the sailor, whose soreness prevented his sleeping very found, perceived him, and imagining it was a summons to a repetition of the torture, he sprung up, as far as his chains would admit him, and cried, 'Hollo! who comes there?' -The inquisitor advancing, answered, 'A friend.' -'Aye! 
[Page 258]
damn all such friends, (replied the sailor) I suppose you come to give me another toasting; but if my hands were out of the bilboes, I'd send you off with a salt eel for your supper.' 
'Moderate your rage a moment my friend; I come to set you free if you desire, and will deserve it.' -'Avast haling brother! I do not understand you!' -'Why, do not you desire to be free?' -'Desire! aye! that I do! but I may whistle for that wind long enough, before it will blow.' -'Perhaps not; perhaps that wind, as you say, is nearer blowing than you imagine! what would you do to be free?' -'Do? I'd burn the inquisition, and cut the inquisitor's throat! I'd do any thing, but turn papist, or fight against Old England.' -'Honest Briton! but suppose I should set you free; would you serve me faithfully in one thing, that is neither against your country nor your religion?' -'Belay that, and I'll warrant you; if I say it, I'll do it without more words. I am no landsman nor Portuguese.' -'Well then, I'll take your word, and so come with me.' -The sailor was so surprized he scarce knew whether he was asleep or awake; however as soon as the inquisitor had unlocked his 
[Page 259]
chains, he shrugged his shoulders, and followed him, without more questions. 
When they were come into my master's apartment, he made the sailor sit down, and giving him some wine to chear his spirits, 'You are now at liberty my friend, (said he) without any farther condition, and may go where you please: but if you will serve me in an affair I shall mention to you, you shall have reason to think of this night with pleasure as long as you live.' -'Serve you master, (replied the sailor) that I will! name but what you would have me do; that is, as I said before; you understand me; and I'll do it, though it was to hand the main top-gallant sail, in a storm, at midnight, when the yard was broke in the flings, and it was not my watch; for if it was a man's watch do you see, it would be but his duty, and there is no merit in a man's doing his duty; I am no flincher; I never say aye when I mean no: though I say it I am gentleman; my father was lieutenant of a man of war, and I have been to sea these five and thirty years man and boy, and never was once brought to the gang-way in all that time. If the noble captain that rated me a midshipman twenty years ago, had lived to be 
[Page 260]
an admiral, I should have been an officer before now.' 
The honest openness of heart that appeared in the sailor's giving his own character made my master hear him with pleasure, and place an entire confidence in him. As soon as he had finished, therefore, he opened his scheme to him, and the sailor undertook to go to London, buy a good ship, and freight her for Alexandria, and to call at Lisbon in his way, and take my master and his friends aboard, to do which he gave him money and jewels to a great amount; the latter he was to dispose of in London, and account with the inquisitor for the surplus, after the purchase of the ship and cargo, which were to be his own, in reward for his trouble, as soon as he had made this voyage. 
All things being thus settled, the sailor was just departing, when on a sudden thought, he turned short on the inquisitor, 'Steady, (said he) steady; so far we go right before the wind, and all's well. But whom do you mean to clap aboard me when I come? if it is the Pretender, or the French king, here, take back your trinkams; I'll be damned before I'll help either of them to make his escape.' - 'Never fear my friend, (replied the inquisitor, 
[Page 261]
scarce able to contain his laughter, at the strangeness of such a thought) I promise you it is neither of these; I promise you not to do any thing against your king or your religion.' -'But shall we not have one dash at this damned place? (added the sailor) shall we not set it on fire, and cut the inquisitor's throat? I'll bring a gang of jolly boys that would shoot the gulph of hell, to have a stroke at Devil Dominick; shall we not set the inquisition on fire, and cut the inquisitor's throat.' -'We will consider about those things: but you had better lose no time; and let me once more caution you, not to be seen in Lisbon at present; and to be as expeditious as possible in your return.' -'Never fear master; never fear,' replied the sailor, and shaking him heartily by the hand, away he went. 
I here quitted the service of the inquisitor, being among the money which he gave to the sailor. 

[Page 262]

CHAP. XV. 

The sailor goes to London, buys a ship, and returns to Lisbon, where he takes his passengers on board. His behaviour on meeting a French ship. He lands his passengers at Alexandria, returns home and marries. Chrysal quits his service. 
My new master no sooner found himself at liberty, then he hasted away to the sea side, without ever stopping to look behind him, and luckily finding the packet just ready to fail, he was out of sight of Lisbon before morning. 
Never was an heart so intent upon executing a commission faithfully as his; he thought of nothing else all the passage, and the moment he arrived in London he sold the jewels, bought a ship, manned her well, and having laid in a proper cargo, set sail for Lisbon, and was there before his employer imagined he was arrived in London. 

[Page 263]
I had been an idle spectator of these transactions, for young Aminadab had made such depredations on me, that no one in London would accept me at my original value; and my master's honour would not think of parting with me for less, without acquainting the person from whom he had received meThe moment he arrived in Lisbon, he gave notice to his friend, whose joy at his fidelity and expedition is not to be expressed. He immediately had the treasures, which he designed to take with him, conveyed secretly aboard, and as soon as the wind served, embarked himself with his friends, in the night, and obliged my master to sail directly, though greatly to his dissatisfaction, because he would not consent to his firing the prison of the inquisition, and cutting the inquisitor's throat. 
Heaven seemed to approve of the undertaking, sending a fair wind, which soon carried us out of the fear of our enemies. 
It is impossible to conceive an happier company than were now together; nor did the blunt festivity of my master add a little to the pleasure of their voyage, which met but one cloud, that seemed at first to threaten a good deal, but soon blew over. 

[Page 264]
When we were about half our voyage, my master entered the cabbin hastily one morning, and with a kind of fierce delight flashing in his eyes, says to the inquisitor, whom he always called owner, 'Well, owner, you shall now see what English boys can do; there is a large Frenchman bearing down upon us, but if you do not see him sheer off as short as if he had got soul of a lee shore, I will never take the helm again, if he is not even obliged to drop anchor to bring him up along side of us; and as I expected some such thing, I took a letter of marque, so that you need not fear being hanged for a pirate, if the worst should happen.' 
But delighted as my master was, his passengers did not seem so well pleased with the news, especially his owner, who was not used to fighting, and beside was too anxious for his escape with his fair prize, to think of any thing with pleasure, which could possibly deprive him of her. 
They all therefore went directly upon the deck, and seeing the ship really coming toward them, the inquisitor went into the cabbin, that he should not be observed by the men, and sending for my master, accosted him thus, 'Surely, my friend, you 
[Page 265]
cannot mean to wait for that ship, (for we were lying-to) she certainly means to attack you.' -'And so let her, owner, (replied my master) I'll warrant she gets as good as she brings.' -'But consider, my friend; (returned the inquisitor) consider we are on board you.' -'Well, owner, and what then; you are not afraid: the lady may be stowed safe below; and you'll stand as good a chance as another; you are not afraid.' -'My good friend, I have not time now to explain my reasons to you; but if you have any regard for me, you will instantly croud all the sail you can, and get clear of this affair; I desire it; I beg it.' -'Why look you, owner, what needs all these words? if so be, you order us, we must put about to be sure, for the ship is your's; but then the honour of old England, consider that; the honour of old England.' -'O, my friend, I can consider nothing but my desire to avoid this danger; so once more I beg'- 'Enough said, enough said.' Then going upon the deck, 'Well, my lads, our owner does not chuse this brush, while the lady is on board; so we must about ship; but as we come back, Soup Maigre shall pay for it.' -And saying this, he obeyed the desire of his owner as faithfully 
[Page 266]
as if it had been his own, only not with the same appearance of pleasure, not being able to avoid ejaculating damn fear, at every turn of the tune he whistled as he walked the deck the rest of that day. 
He had so punctually observed his owner's instructions, in getting a good ship, that we were soon out of sight of the Frenchman; nor did we meet with any thing disagreeable during the remainder of the voyage. 
The day after this affair, when they had all recovered their good humour, my master addressed his owner thus'Now, owner, while the sky is clear, and we have nothing else to do, I had better give you an account of your money. Here is the log-book, which you may overhawl at your leisure, though the sooner the better. This is the time; there is no taking a good observation in a form, as may happen by and bye; you'll find all as fair as a new cable: but I must give you one point to direct your reckoning by; and that is this; you bade me buy a ship, and freight her, and so forth, and she and the cargo should be my own, after I have done your job this trip. Now, owner, it is very true that a less 
[Page 267]
vessel than this might have made the run; but then you seemed so desirous to be safe, that I thought it best to take a bargain in this stout ship, which I knew to be as good a sea boat as ever turned to windward, and able to go, hank for hank, with any thing that swims the sea, as we shewed when we run the Frenchman out of sight yesterday; though it went against my heart to do it; but no matter for that now; the ship is your's, and you have a right to be obeyed. However, there is the account, and here is the rest of your money, of which I did not lay out one shilling that I could avoid, but one guinea, which I gave to my old mess-mate Will Crosstree, whom I met on Tower-hill in distress; and one I gave Black Moll of Wapping to heave down; and I could not well avoid those either, for Will was an old mess-mate, and I owed Moll for many a good turn in her way; but all this signifies nothing to you; they can be stopped in account; and here is a damned guinea too, that would not go; I believe it has been in the hospital, till it was fluxed off its legs. 
'And now, owner, as you may think this ship cost too much, and that the 
[Page 268]
cargo is too good; I will not keep you to your bargain; she is your own and all that is in her, only pay the men; as for me I am satisfied with having got out of that damned inquisition, and leave the rest to yourself. If you think that I have deserved any thing, well and good; if not, I do not fear bread, while the sea flows round old England: all that grieves me is, that you would not let us set fire to the inquisition, and cut the inquisitor's throat.' -If my master's bluntness in the affair of the French ship, gave offence to his owner, the honesty of this speech restored him to his warmest esteem; and made Pheron, who was present, cry out in a rapture, 'Thank heaven there is still some honesty among mankind.' ----'Honesty! aye, (replied my master) a little among the tars of Old England! a little.' 
The inquisitor having by this time, recovered from the astonishment, into which such nobleness of soul threw him, returned the account unopened with these words, 'I am convinced your account must be just; and I freely make you a gift, not of this ship and cargo, for they are justly your own already, but of the rest of the money which is in your hands.' ---'What, 
[Page 269]
all, owner! all!' -'All, my friend; if it were many times so much you justly merit it.' -'But then, Owner, had not you better sign the account if you please, for fear of after-reckonings with your executors; for I hate the law damnably, ever since I lost a year's pay for hindering our boatswain's mate's brother to beat his wife. The brimstone swore I beat her husband, and so I paid for medling; but it was the lawyer's fault that set her on. Damn all lawyers say I.' ---'Well then, my honest, worthy friend, there is a receipt; and I wish you success equal to your merit; and you cannot have more.' ---'Enough said, owner; enough said: I thank you; I thank you.' 
The remainder of our voyage was one continued scene of happiness. My master landed his passengers at Alexandria, from whence they soon set out for Pheron's country, and at his taking leave of them, advised them to be careful how they ventured in any of the ships of those countries, which he assured them were not better than bumboats, nor did their mariners know any more of the sea than a Thames waterman. 
Having finished this, his first business, he proceeded to dispose of his cargo, for 
[Page 270]
which he met so good a market, and made so profitable a return from thence home, that as soon as he arrived, his landlady's daughter at Gosport, whom he had been in love with for many years, but never dared to speak to till now, readily consented to marry him. One thing though I must not omit, and that was that he kept a constant look out all the voyage home, for that Frenchman, whom he had fled from so fore against his will; and was greatly concerned that he could not meet him, to have one brush, for the honour of Old England. 
I did not remain with him to be a witness of his happiness; he gave me to a Jew pedlar for a pair of fine sleeve buttons, to present to his mistress the morning before his marriage. 

[Page 271]

CHAP. XVI. 

Chrysal arrives in London, where he comes into the possession of a pawn-broker, by whom he is given to the author. A most unhappy instance of human infirmity. The conclusion. 
The diminution of my size, which had made my late master careless about me, did not prevent the pedlar, though with many apparent scruples, from giving him a great bargain, worth about a third part of my present value, for me. 
I did not remain long in his possession: he passed me off as soon as he arrived in London, whither he was going when he received me, to a pawn-broker, at a division of the loss, in the purchase of old cloaths, which he was going to carry abroad Strange were the scenes, and unexpected the faces, which I saw in this place, where every necessary utensil of life, every ornament 
[Page 272]
of luxury was deposited, as in a place of security, by their respective owners: but your own experience makes any particular description of this place, or its manifold mysterious trade, unnecessary to you. 
The misfortune of my size kept me a prisoner here till Saturday night, when my master always puts off his light coin, just before he shuts his shop, to the poor people, whose necessity requiring an immediate supply, for the support of life, cannot wait to return it on Monday, and so must even bear the lossSuch a person did he think you, and accordingly gave me to you: but the moment I came into your possession, and found that you were the chosen of ten thousand; the first born of science, whom wisdom had instructed, and art led by the hand, through the dark labyrinths of nature, till the coy fugitive, unable longer to elude your pursuit, had been obliged to consent to a revelation of her most occult wisdom, and to entrust you with the command of that chain, which links the animal and material worlds together; the moment I say that I perceived who you were, and that I was the intelligence appointed to convey this favour to you, I entered your heart with the greatest pleasure, 
[Page 273]
and waited with impatience for the moment, when I should confer this completion of human happiness and honour upon you; a pleasure that was heightened by the noble constancy you shewed, when the smell of the hot ox-cheek, as you came by the cook's shop, raised that conflict between nature and knowledge, whether you should purchase some of it to satisfy your hunger, or preserve me for this last experiment, in which the latter was so gloriously triumphant. 
The auspicious moment is arrived; nature labours in the throws of the mystick birth; and lo! the philosophick king arises in all the glory of the morning! attend to my words; receive the consummation of human knowledge. 
To apprehend this secret cause, you must know * * * * ** * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * O doleful and deplorable event; never to be told without wailing; never to be read without tears. Just as the spirit had arrived 
[Page 274]
at this most interesting point, human weakness, unable to suppress the impulse of internal vapour, which the mention of the fatal ox-cheek set in motion, in my empty bowels, by the longing it raised in my stomach, emitted an explosion that filled the room with a fetid steam The spirit started at the unpardonable offence to his purity; and looking at me with ineffable contempt, indignation, and abhorrence, vanished from my sight, without deigning a word more. 
The misfortune was more than I could bear; I sunk under its weight, and swooned away upon the floor * 11 , where officious humanity found me, and restored me to a life that was a burden under such a disappointment. The labour of my life being lost; the one moment in a thousand years slipped away in vain. But such is the consequence of human weakness; such the end of all the works, of all the expectations of man. 
CONCLUSION. 
And now, O my brother in disappointment, who readest this most lamentable 
[Page 275]
catastrophe, whether thou art a taylor, whose principal debtor is made a lord, a physician, whose nostrum is discovered, a cobler, who sleepest over thy last, in hopes of dreaming of hidden treasure, a poet whose play is refused, or a senator, who hast mortgaged thine estate to purchase a seat in parliament, just before its dissolution, attend to the instruction in my words, and learn wisdom from my example. Seize the present moment, nor depend upon the future; let reason curb expectation; reduce imagination to common sense; and bring your wishes within the bounds of your real wants: so shall industry banish necessity from your habitation; and content turn all your possessions into gold. 

The END.

NOTES
1 * See all the modern hypothetical philosophy. 
2 * Essay on Spirit. 
3  SirisWould not these, and many other passages of the same nature which support the systems of those celebrated works, almost tempt us to think, that the writers of them must have had a communication with this or some such spirit, to come at knowledge so supernatural? 
4 * Essay on Spirit. 
5 * Locke. 
6 * The name that seamen call their complaints against their captain; it is taken from the manner of their signing them, which is in a circle, so that there is no knowing who signs first. 
7 * From hence it should seem, the hint of a late treatise, on the origin of evil, was borrowed or else dictated by the same spirit. 
8  Fable of the bees. 
9 * Homer. 
10 * Echard. 
11 * See the preface. 
Publication title:and Conditions


 

