Disclaimer: This file is generated using OCR (optical character recognition) and/or HTR (handwritten text recognition) which are technologies that convert images of text into text. While the technologies are good at deciphering legible text there are limitations and some text may not have been extracted correctly.
Women as they are. A novel in four volumes by Mrs. Parsons. ...
Vo ur.rwtoj.
WOMEN* LrHEr ARE.■MWMlWWWWww ■A NOVELIN FOUR VOLUMES ST MRS. PARSONS.AUTHOR OF MYSTERIOUS WARNINGS Ac.■ *WIIWVOL. I.niNlllliLONDON: PRINTED FOR WILLIAM LANE AT THZ Mnervs-Vreks HADEN HALL-STREET.N.BCC.XCTI
TOMrs. ANSO N> o ySHUCKBOROUG fl -MANORSTAFFORDSHIRE.mnMMMadamWHEN I take the liberty to in¬ scribe the following Work to you. I have not the presumption to think the offering in the smallest degree adequate to the favours and indulgence a I have
1 have received from you and your truly respectable family. I gratify my own feelings not your’s—for I take equal pride and pleasure to myself in acknow¬ ledging thus publicly the lively fense I entertain of the distinction I have been honoured with.Addresses of this kind are too gene¬ rally the vehicle for fulsome adulation and originate from selfish and interested views. In the few dedications I have been permitted to make I have been singularly fortunate: characters so justly distinguished and admired by the world could derive no additional lustre from the panegyrics of my pen any more than their consequence could be dimi¬ nished by their condescension in my favour; — virtues that establish them¬ selves in the eye of discrimination can neither
neither be affected by the one nor the other.’Tis this conviction madam that emboldens me to prefix your name to an address warm from the heart of gra¬ titude where any attempt to praise or display virtues and accomplishments known and acknowledged by a whole county and a large circle of admiring friends would be futile and unnecessary and therefore happily spares me on a subject I am little capable of doing jus¬ tice to.I have only then madam to request your acceptance of this trifling mark of my respect and entreat pardon for flickering it under your patronage with¬ out first obtaining your permission.—Permit
[ viii }Permit the motive to sanctify the deed* —an earnest desire of avowing myself with all posiible respect and gratitudeMadamY our much obliged andMost obedient ServantELIZA PARSONS.LtaAn AW. j 1796.
WOMEN AS THEY ARKLETTER I.MISS BOYLE TO MRS. ROWE.MRS. Cranfield and my mother have succeeded as I expected. When indeed did the latter ever fail in a point file was resolved to carry ? My s^'-er has been compelled to rescind his “” and submits to the more abso¬ lute decision of my mother who never yet vol. i. B knew
rWOMEN AS THEY ARE.knew what it was to recede from her deter¬minations doubtless from a thorough con- vidlion of the infallibility of her own judg¬ ment. Forgive me my dear madam if I seem to speak with some asperity of a parent’s conduct: : you I am sure will no more allow of any improper reflections than I should forgive myself if I suffered my pen to take undue liberties with a cha¬ racter I have ever been taught to hold sa¬ cred ; but you have always known the in¬ most recesses of my heart; and if I know any thing of myself I feel the partiality not to say injustice of the plan now irrevo¬ cably determined on infinitely less on my own account than as it must materially in¬ jure my brother.Though a resident f me . ears (years of happiness to me ! • m our family I believe you were but little acquainted with its history and the particulars I am now going to relate were communicated a very short time since by my dear father in one of70
our evening-walks. My father at the age of twenty-five succeeded to an unincum¬ bered estate of sixteen hundred a year. His marriage with my mother was an union of hearts. She had been deprived of her pa¬ rents at a very early age and was left with twelve thousand pounds in the guardian- Ihip of Mr. and Mrs. Cranfield ; the latter was her aunt. When very young she gave promise of that beauty which was after¬ wards so much admired and of which she still retains a considerable share. I have a thousand times been insulted by Mrs. Cran¬ field by mortifying comparisons between the beauty of my mother’s portrait and the want of attraction in her eldest daugh¬ ter’s ; and to the conviction of being de¬ ficient in personal beauty I am certainly indebted for the application and attention which led me to profit by your excellent lessons in the cultivation of my mind. But to return.Mr. and Mrs. Cranfield lived in the gay world and saw a great deal of whatBa is
4 WOMEN AS THEY ARE.is termed the best company. They were proud of their niece. She received every polish a liberal education could bestow and was early introduced into the most falhion- able circles. Their expectation and ambi¬ tion was to lee her married to a man of rank but this anxious with for the aggrandise¬ ment of their family was suddenly defeated by her partiality for my father. He had been chosen member for the town contigu¬ ous to his estates and came to London for the first time to attend parliament. He met Mr. and Mrs. Cranfield and their niece at the table of a common friend; the young lady’s charms were not to be viewed with impunity ; and in a few short hours my father was gone an age in love.Being introduced to Mr. Cranfield as a young man of family and fortune and a stranger to London his lady always fond of enlarging her circle of acquaintance po¬ liticly gave him an invitation to her house which was molt readily accepted. Not to be
be tedious he availed himself of their civi¬ lity and became a constant guest; his heart was irrecoverably loft and their beau¬ tiful niece the Idle object of his adora¬ tions.My hither had in those days as I have heard my mother when in good humour often avow much manly beauty and elegance of person with those pleasing insinuating manners which seldom fail of making an in- tereft in the hearts of those whole good opinion they are desirous of cultivating. In a short time the attachment became mu¬ tual nor did it remain long undiscover¬ ed by her guardians whose vexation and disappointment induced them to throw away much good advice and raise every possible obftacle to the union. But my mother at that time gave a specimen of the resolution and persevering spirit which bears all down before it : she asserted her own rights and pleaded so powerfully in favour of her in¬ clinations j that however reluctantly theyB 3 were
6WOMEN AS THEY ARE.were compelled to secede from their wishes and submit to her uncontroulable will.Her fortune was secured for the younger children and five hundred a year fettled on her as a jointure. Mr. Cranfield had always declared he would make a large ad¬ dition to the fortune of his niece; but a marriage that could not gratify his pride was to receive no countenance from him j and though a reluctant consent was ex¬ torted from him he closed up his money¬ bags impenetrable even to the object near- est his heart. My father who had never reckoned on possessing any part of Mr. Cranfield’s fortune felt not the smallest dis¬ satisfaction 3 and my mother young much in love and solely engaged by preparations for appearing in the world in a new cha¬ racter scarcely attended to so trifling a consideration as money.They were married and introduced into all the polite circles with much eclat; and>
as Mrs. Cranfield could not have a title for her niece Hie resolved to make up for that deficiency by an elegance -of dress and equipage that should at least vic in ap¬ pearance with a countess. My father was too fond of his wife and too much grati¬ fied by the admiration the excited to make any opposition to measures that enhanced the consequence of the woman he boated on and gave additional brilliancy to her beauty and spirits. Mrs. Cranfield was the grand directress of all their movements and for several months they lived in a style that required at least treble the income of my father to support. Nor was this all ; the pleasures of the town took fast hold of my mother’s mind and in the whirl of dissi¬ pation that warmth of affection which had thrown her into the arms of her hus¬ band in opposition to interest and advice ; —that passion which she once believed was interwoven with her existence began daily to lose ground and was soon lost in the vor¬ tex of folly and fashion.B 4 The
rWOMEN AS THEY ARE.The King’s birth-day was a fresh call for expence. A new carriage liveries though both had been purchased within fix months —a superb dress with all its appendages sufficient to excite the admiration and talk of the town were exhibited in due form ; and Mrs. Cranfield had the inexpressible delight jo read in the public papers that Mrs. Boyle both in beauty and elegance surpassed every duchess in the drawing¬ room.The consequence to a young and in¬ experienced mind tutored in the school of vanity and encouraged by a woman she had been accustomed to look up to as a mother may be easily divined. It was not surprising that she grew intoxicated with adulation and learned to set an undue va¬ lue on her self-consequence. Alas ! my dear madam the had no prudent intelligent friend no amiable governess to direct: and improve the natural talents heaven had blessed her with. The virtues the possessedwere
were all her own—her follies impressed up¬ on her by a foolish vain extravagant wo¬ man whose influence has counteracted every good purpose which might otherwise have rendered my mother the most respectable of women.The birth-day over the house broke up; my father with heart-felt joy mentioned the delight he should feel in introducing his lovely wife to her country-house and the surrounding neighbourhood. This was a plan against which both ladies revolted. They exclaimed against the odious country in such a remote part of the kingdom and openly declared for Tunbridge as the only place tolerable and supportable when the town grew empty. In vain did my father implore and remonstrate tenderly revert to the present situation of my mother — a situation that required rest and a collation from the endless dissipations in which flic had been engaged when in town and the continuance of which with its attendantB £ fatigues^
fatigues might in all probability^ prove molt injurious to her health and his best hopes. All the arguments he could de¬ duce were fruitless ; the plan was settled and unable to give a moment’s pain to a beloved object so peculiarly entitled to every tender consideration he submitted without a murmur though not without re¬ luctance.The very great expences attending his election to a seat in parliament previous to his marriage had nearly exhausted his ready money; but his income was more than sufficient for all his wants and he ex¬ pected every year to lay by some hundreds besides his estates being in a state of im¬ provement several leaseholds ready to fall in and many buildings erecting on detached pieces of ground which seemed every day more cultivated and valuable ; he had lit¬ tle doubt but that he should soon have a. considerable addition to hjs rent-roll and enable him to reimburse his late expences and
and provide for future contingencies. But the plans of youthful prudence are too easily overthrown when assailed by temptation. Love drove economy out of doors and the idea of pleasing the woman he loved like the rod of Aaron swallowed up all lesser considerations.The consequence was additional embar¬ rassments in his circumstances. Same thou¬ sands were spent in a few months and the old oaks fell under the axe to raise a tem¬ porary supply.In his wife's fortune he had only a life- interest as he had generously settled it on the younger children ; and having already anticipated two years income by his ex.- pences in town a journey to Tunbridge which would be productive of still farther demands on an exhausted purse were con¬ siderations that gave him great uneasiness though he had not the resolution to persist in an opposition to his wife’s willies or ex-B 6 plain
plain to her the already-deranged slate at his affairs.And here my dear madam I take the liberty to blame my father for it is pro¬ bable had he candidly laid before my mo¬ ther the particulars I have been relating Hie wanted not sense nor good-nature nor had she then acquired that strong passion for the gaieties of the world which you too well know afterwards marked her charac¬ ter and superceded that affection once thought immutable. Had she been early acquainted with his embarrassments it might have saved both in time from many painful circumstances ; but tenderness and delicacy impeded confidence in such points as he thought would hurt his wife's feelings and for temporary gratifications he sacrifi¬ ced the future repose of his life..To Tunbridge they went and pursued with avidity every amusement which the fashion of the day held forth. The hours flew.
flew winged with delight. Mrs. Boyle was the admiration of the male world — the standard of elegance and imitation among the females. Some of the latter by their attentions sought to console my father for the loss of his wife's company as it was a “” But he doated on his lovely Ann had no eyes for any other wo¬ man and palled the tedious hours of her absence in reading and music when he. chose to retire from the gay multitude.Two months pasted at Tunbridge added greatly to his pecuniary diliicultics and gave him unspeakable concern. He ven¬ tured again to breathe a wish for a visit to the mansion os his forefathers and was heard now with more complacence. My mother’s situation restricted her from many pleasures; fatigue and latitude succeeded to her evening amusements and her person had lost its elegance and lightness. She therefore began to think it necessary to retire.
retire for a short time from the gaieties she could no longer enjoy without pain and readily approved of his proposition to leave Tunbridge.Mrs. Cranficld made no objection to their departure because the company were now retiring to their country-seats or other pla¬ ces of dissipation ; but the warmly infilled that Mrs. Boyle should lie-in in London and after that event go to Bath for a month and then it would be time enough to go into Wales for two or three months before the meeting of parliament.My fatlrer was again compelled to follow the lead of Mrs. Cranfield and to town they came though at a very unfashionable season of the year.They met Mr. Cranfield who was juft returned from a tour into I orkfhire where he had picked up a very distant relation whom he had accidentally met with ; the son of a clergyman who had a large familyand
and who had been till this chance-meeting entirely unknown him. This young man about two and twenty educated for the church was very sensible and prepossessing; He had pleased Mr. Cranfield and he had brought him to town declaredly as his heir.This circumstance was by no means plea¬ sing to Mrs. Cranfield or her niece and for the first time my father began to think of that fortune he had once heard Mr. Cran¬ field fay should be given to his wife; and which now that he was apprehensive of losing gave him a pang of regret on her account knowing the derangement of his own affairs. But the regret on his fide and the displeasure of the two ladies•■'""''caused no rejoicings and my dear father has more than once declared that the coolness of my mother’s regards to me and the total neglect; I experienced from all the family first ex¬ cited his compaflion and induced him to pay more attention to my infantine state.I was provided with a nurse as my mo¬ ther could not bear the fatigue of such an employment. To regain strength and re¬ cover her former beauty sufficiently en¬ grossed all her cares and the anxious studies of her aunt.I was just three weeks old when Mr. Cranfield was suddenly attacked by a para¬ lytic stroke which took from him the use of one fide entirely. Alarmed by his situa¬ tion he sent for an attorney and made his will nor was the precaution useless; for in. three days after a repetition of the stroke ended his existence.. When this will was opened how great was the mortification of the survivors !Mr.
Mr. Philip Cranfield the young gen¬ tleman I hav mentioned was left sole ex¬ ecutor on paying the following legacies. “” These with a few other legacies and annuities to some old servants were the con¬ tents of the will.An acquisition of such magnitude — so sudden and unlooked-for a change in cir¬ cumstances was enough to have turned the brain of some men ; but Mr. Philip Cran¬ field behaved uncommonly well enjoyed the bequest with moderation and humility. He requested Mrs. Cranfield to direct every thing and offered implicit obedience to her orders.In
r8WOMEN AS THEY ARB.In the first transports of her grief flic very indelicately in presence of my father upbraided her niece with marrying so pre¬ cipitately by which rashness the had not only lost the probability of being a peeress but also the whole of her dear Mr. Cran- field’s fortune; who always intended to have divided his property equally between them and now jbe was the Jufferer for her niece’s imprudence.This cruel .reproach funk deep into my father’s mind and strongly affected his wife who has but too often since on the least seeming opposition to her will reminded him of the sacrifices the had made and the fortune she had eventually lost by giving him her hand.—But to hasten the conclusion of this tedious story. The fu¬ neral over and every thing being fettled the young man returned to make his father ahd family happy ; and my father mother Mrs. Cranfield the little-regarded infant and servants set out for Bath where they again
again plunged into every folly and expence. It was at this time that I attracted the no¬ tice of my father; disgusted with the fame routine of what was called amusement : he spent much of his time at home and began to take pleasure in my infantine smiles and the dawnings of perception. My helpless slate and the want of maternal tenderness excited compassion and affection and from that time I became the object of his love and never-ceasing attention to which un¬ der heaven I am indebted for every advan¬ tage I enjoy.When the gay votaries of pleasure began to leave Bath my father had permission to prepare for their journey into Wales. With infinite delight he availed himself of the present inclination and we were soon on the road for a home he had long sighed after.My father's family-mansion was in Car¬ narvonshire situated on the fea-coaft from whence
whence was a prospect into the island of Anglesea ; and from a rising wood at the back of the house was seen the famous hills of Snowden. The estate was more exten¬ sive than productive; there were but few families of fashion in the neighbourhood ; nor however well adapted for the solitary or romantic mind was it at all calculated to afford any amusement to a fine lady; the feats of opulence being but thinly scat¬ tered in the northern parts of Wales and the prospects more wild and romantic than fanciful and alluring.The ladies were thoroughly difgufted on their first arrival and every subsequent en¬ deavour of my father to amuse and enliven her hours had the contrary effect and im¬ plied in the attempt a consciousness of such deficiencies to entertain them as they did not fail to take notice of.They dragged on a miserable existence for six weeks and then insisted upon returning
returning to Bath. To expostulate availed nothing and to refuse a darling wife any with that "” was an impossibility on his part ; they trussed therefore to his good-nature to carry their point. The ex- pence incident to such journies was gently hinted by my father but not attended to by my mother. He dreaded to speak more plainly less he should wound her feelings; and lire flrut her ears against any disagreea¬ ble information that might militate against her schemes of pleasure.To Bath they went; from Bath to London; and in London embraced with eagerness every fashionable amusement and every ex¬ pensive pleasure; and when the following summer came instead of going to that "” my father was pre¬ vailed upon to hire a villa in Hertfordshire to which they retired for a few months till it became requisite for my mother toprepare
prepare for another accouchement in London.Sixteen months after I was ushered into the world my fitter was born; and as every body declared was a complete beauty from the first hour of her exiftence ;—a circumstance that fortunately procured for her that attention and tenderness from which I had been ever excluded.Every indulgence that love and prodiga¬ lity could suggest was lavished on this beau¬ teous child; and every hour my mother could spare from her round of engagements was devoted to the admiration of this young resemblance of its mother’s charms I had been christened by the simple appella¬ tion of Mary; but such a vulgar name would not suit a beauty. Many long con¬ sultations took place on this important fub- ject and at length it was decided that Caroline Matilda would be elegant and fa¬ shionable ; Mrs. Cranfield observing thatas
us I grew up and would be called Miss Boyle my name (which by the bye had been given to me in compliment to her) would be of no consequence.-The same routine of amusements were followed their expences daily augmented; and in the third year of my father’s marriage he had a son and heir born to an estate deeply mortgaged and in circumstances very much embarrassed.I should have observed to you that Mrs. Cranfield resided entirely with my mother without feeling any expence of housekeep¬ ing considering as I have understood that accommodating her niece with the use of her furnished house in town was a suffi¬ cient equivalent for the additional disburse¬ ments herself and two servants made on my father’s purse ; particularly as my mother was persuaded all Mrs. Cranfield’s savings would ultimately be for the benefit of her family.I shall
I shall here conclude this packet hav¬ ing an opportunity of fending it by Mr. Gibbs; but as I shall proceed in my nar¬ rative it will quickly be followed by another not I hope of equal bulk ; for I shall endeavour to be less prolix. Adieu my dear madam.With all affection and gratitudeI remainYour obligedMary Boyle.LET-
LETTER ILMISS BOYLE TO MRS. ROWE.THE birth of a son so earnestly wished for in the first year of his marriage now plunged my father inty the deepest me¬ lancholy. The incumbrances on his estate and the regular system of expence which no remonstrances of his had been able to prevent were now matters of serious consi¬ deration and at length determined him to a resolution of speaking more plainly to my mother when he could venture to do so without danger.vol. I. C The
The painful anxiety depicted in his coun¬ tenance was not long unobserved either by my mother or aunt. The latter having occasion to demand what my father thought rather too large a sum to defray the ex- pences of a splendid christening he seized the opportunity of explaining to Mrs. Cranfield the deranged (late of his affairs and the impossibility of continuing an esta¬ blishment that every day increased his pe - cuniary difficulties. She heard him with either a real or an affected astonishment and pretended the most disdainful incredulity upbraided him with parsimony and want of tenderness for a wife who had sacrificed the most splendid prospects for him; and who in return was refused the necessary indulgencies the poorest mechanic gave to his wife in a situation that rendered them so absolutely requisite.My father stung to the soul by re¬ proaches and suspicions so little merited afraid left this imprudent woman who had exalted
exalted her voice to a very loud key should by her violence alarm and terrify his wife besought her to spare him at this period the part of continuing a conversation so little satisfactory to either and to be assu¬ red that when his dear Ann was capable of hearing him upon the subject he would be¬ fore her enter into an explicit detail of his affairs and the expences of the three pre¬ ceding years which he was persuaded would prove how little he merited the mortifying reproaches of Mrs. Cranfield. He conclu¬ ded by giving her the sum she required though at that time appropriated for a far better purpose—the discharge of a bill that ought long before to have been paid.My dear father regrets that weakness and an imbecility of mind made him the dupe of Mrs. Cranfield’s vanity and violence. Had he at that time assumed resolution to have persevered in refusing the money and firmly determined on a new regulation in expence the consequences could not haveC L proved
Ttr’'Ta8 WOMEN AS THEY ARE.proved so fatal to his peace as exposing his weak side to her who law in his fondness for my mother the road to over every prudent or retired plan that reason suggested; but which if inimical to the wishes and pleasure of his wife he had not fortitude enough to persevere in. Thus the tenderness of his heart was the original cause of his ruin.I shall pass over the four subsequent years. My father acknowledges that after one conversation with my mother on the subject of reform which threw her into hysterics he had not the resolution ever to renew it. Things went from bad to worse until he was compelled to fell such parts of his estate as he had the power to dispose of; and what with annuities and the loss to his in¬ come his fortune did not exceed six hun¬ dred pounds a year. My mother and Mrs. Cranfield who would not believe his repre¬ sentations nor fee the approaching ruin till it fell upon them when convinced how long
long and fatally they had deceived them¬ selves and injured my father were at first clamorous and intemperate i^ their grief— cruel and insulting in their retrospections; my mother deprecating her own folly in indulging an imprudent pailion and her aunt reproaching and lamenting the indis¬ cretion of her niece who "”. My father wifely let the torrent roll and- the tumult of their grief and indignation expend its violence before he attempted to interrupt them; but when they were exhausted and silent he assumed a degree of firmness they had not been accustomed towitness and declared his resolution in. express terms of making an entire changeC 3 in
in his establishment. He had already given notice of dismission to four servants. The coach and one pair of horses he would reserve but the phæton and saddle-horses were to be fold the house they were in given up and a smaller one more agreeable to the frugal plan he had decided upon was to be hired; for even bis pride revolted against any idea of returning to his own mansion in Wales where he must appear with a cir¬ cumscribed income.When he had laid his plans before them they were sullenly silent. He saw their sur¬ prise at his firmness was equal to their grief and indignation : he however affected to take their silence for acquiescence and com¬ plimented them on their fortitude and com¬ plaisance. This was going too far : he had touched a tender string; and from the expression of their eyes foreseeing another storm he wisely withdrew to put his plans in execution and left them to their mutual condolence.Mrs.
Mrs. Cranfield who really doated on her niece and could not bear that (lie should be deprived of any indulgences of dress and amusements which seemed so necessary to her existence instantly determined to sacri¬ fice her jointure for the accommodation of the family; and after an hour’s conversa¬ tion between them my father was called in and acquainted with her resolution. The generosity of the offer did not reconcile him to the acceptance of it. It was only con¬ tinuing habits of expence which at one time or other mutt suddenly cease as she had no power to secure any part of her in¬ come by will after her death. But future considerations were disregarded for present gratifications. My mother’s tears were again irresistible and conditioning only for the reduction of one carriage and two servants things were once more permitted to go on in the accustomed way; and equally against inclination and judgment my father submitted to the all-powerful will of his beloved Ann.C 4 Soon
Soon after this period when I was nearly feven years old and my softer turned of five you my dearest madam became an inmate of our house. You condescended to take upon you the important talk of super¬ intending our education; and from that hour my revered Mrs. Rowe has been my parent monitrefs and guide. To you next to heaven and my father I feel my¬ self accountable for every action of my life^ for every sentiment of my heart. Still watch over my conduct with the scrutini¬ zing eye of a gentle friend and by your timely admonitions preserve me «sw in the hour of danger from disgracing you and myself.That unremitting attention those admi¬ rable talents which you employed to make yOur pupils respectable virtuous and ac- cotapliflied your own Conduct which il¬ lustrated the precepts you -taught leave us Without e^Cuft if We fall into eftofs yet the frailty^bf'’'human nature the temptations of the
the world and many unpleasant circum- flances which I anticipate render me diffi¬ dent of myself and more than ever desirous of your friendly counsel.But to return.-You saw the powerful influence of Mrs. Cranfield and the assu¬ ming consequence (he held in the family and I am apt to believe more than suspect¬ ed (he contributed to its support though you were too delicate to mention the sub¬ ject. You saw also that I was unfortu¬ nately disregarded by my mother; and with a consideration natural to a generous and humane mind you fought to console; me by your affectionate attentions for a. neglect that deeply wounded my feelings. Oh ! what do I not owe you my revered friend 1 Heaven grant that I may never disgrace you by swerving from those pre¬ cepts so tenderly inculcated in my juvenile years! What pangs did our separation cost* me!—My dear father was. my comforter apdjC 5 companion*.
34WOMEN AS THEY ARE.companion and our solitary rambles the happiest hours I was permitted to indulge.You have heard that Lord Gaywit was enamoured with my fitter and that my de¬ lighted mother and aunt eagerly promoted his addresses. My father started two objections.One the youth of my fitter juft turned of seventeen and the impossibility of giving her such a fortune as my lord’s father would expect and might naturally be looked for from our stile of living—the first objection was a mere bagatelle and was over-ruled; but the second occasioned se¬ veral""-¬■'‘’*' Crahfield. Lord Gaywit waited on my father and'■1Iil‘’'declared his love ; but at the fame time confessed that Earl Stan¬ ton was but too avaricious for his peace and1IilKkt‘'1 that he much doubted of bis approbation unless the lady broughtt1Iil' ' what in bis eyes was of more.worth -than beauty antf merit— such a fortune as might induce the ead to.make
make him a proper establishment. My father frankly confessed that fix thousand pounds a moiety of my mother’s fortune was all his daughter could expect and therefore requested his lordship to relin-- quilh his pretensions and consult the inte¬ rest and honour of his family.My lord it seems was thunderstruck but instantly repaired to my mother. Mrs. Oanfield was summoned to council and the result was a spirited application from both ladies to my father displaying the in¬ finite honour and advantages of this propo¬ sed union and conjuring him to raise a few thousands more on his estate my mother voluntarily offering to dispose of half her jointure for the fame purpose-They contended in answer to my father1Iilt<'*’'s proper consideration for his fon that the interest of such a powerful family would doubtless procure a place for my. bro¬ ther much more than equivalent for theC 6 temporary
companion and our solitary rambles the happiest hours I was permitted to indulge.You have heard that Lord Gaywit was enamoured with my sifter and that my de¬ lighted mother and aunt eagerly promoted his addresses. My father started two objections.One the youth of my sifter juft turned of seventeen and the impossibility of giving her such a fortune as my lord's father would expect and might naturally be looked for from our ftile of living—the first objection was a mere bagatelle and was over-ruled ; but the second occasioned se¬ veral-¬'1Iil‘*' private conferences between my mo¬ ther and Mrs.-¬1Iil■"“ determined resolution.”"e<'‘'compelled to yield. How things have been
been managed I know not. He said he was ashamed to inform me of his weakness and injustice ; and I knowing what his feelings- must be repress my own curiosity to spare him and myself.Yesterday Lord Gaywit renewed his visits. Smiles and good-humour are seen in every countenance. I am too much a cypher to be particularly consulted and therefore only gain information from the exultations of my sister and the parade of preparations already begun to accelerate this important mar¬ riage.And now my dear madam I have ac¬ counted to you for observations and ex¬ pressions in the beginning of my last letter which perhaps you might think repre¬ hensible ; but my mind was then agitated from being informed of my mother’s success and my dear father’s (shall I fay} weakness.. No time was lost to take advantage of his compliance. Letters were dispatched to Lord Gaywit and yesterday he returned in6.
triumph. My sentiments on this defired union are of little consequence nor will I trust them from my bosom. May it be pro- ductive of all that happiness so warmly anti¬ cipated and those advantages so ostenta¬ tiously displayed.We fir all now be almost wholly dependent on Mrs. Cranfield for I have no doubt that my father has been induced to promise largely and to mortgage all he can. Poor Frederic !—but I mult be silent and I know my dear Mrs. Rowe is my second self and that every thing I relate to her is deposi¬ ted in a faithful bosom. Adieu my worthy monitrefs ; continue your friendly regards- to-Your ever obligedMARY BOYLE.LETTER
LETTER HLMISS BOYLE TO MRS. ROWE.A CCEPT my best thanks dear madam * for your kind letter^ and be allured that I will treasure up in my heart every sentiment you have penned and implicitly follow the excellent advice you have ho¬ noured me with. Without reserve I shall continue my communications as I have op¬ portunities ; for even my insignificant per¬ son is of some use now in the general bustle.You
You aik my opinion of Lord Gaywit. It » a delicate points He is to be my sister’s husband :—I would love and respect him but indeed my dear Mrs- Rowe he ap¬ pears to me to be too much like the idle dissipated young men of fashion that we hear of every day In fact he has no cha¬ racter. Gay lively and frivolous fond of dress of himself and of beautiful women his conversation turns upon.no other points; and with an abundance of small talk L have never heard a good or a wife thing es¬ cape from his lips; yet is he entertaining and so perfectly good-humoured that you< are pleased with him^ though he cannot contribute to yopr. improvement; nor can he appear to any advantage in. the. hour of seflection..It is happy for me that early accustomed to be overlooked and of no. consequence ilk the family 1 can bear the of mp sister the transports of my mother and thet disilain of Mrs.. Cranfield with patience and
and indifference. I am careful that not a single look shall convey either reptoach ox regret at the partial distinction made in my filter's favour ; nor do I regret on my own account and I trust my dear father will live to fee his soon recompensed for the sa¬ crifices he has been obliged to make.To-morrow se’nnight is to be the happy day. I have not even heard what fortune my sifter is to have or what settlement she has in return. Every one has been"“ poor boy!"“ starve upon the features of a wife therefore I took my leave and for a week was the dul¬ lest fellow alive and half inclined to hang myself upon the first friendly widow that presented; but in the hour of despair the black clouds dispersed the fun broke through
through the mist and a few lines from an old •woman threw me into such transports that I Relieve my fellows thought me fit for Bedlam in short a grand aunt of my beloved’s sent me such proposals as I gladly acceded to; and after some objec¬ tions on the Earl’s part and many sup¬ plications on mine his great desire to have a grandson prevailed over avarice and he consented to abate of some thousands to gratify his favourite wish and make me a "”Thus. all things being in train I flew to my charmer and was received with rapture by all but the father and sister. The former was polite but grave and cold ; the other treated me with the most perfect good breeding ; but whether from envy at her sister’s good fortune — from a na¬ tive pride or a constitutional coldness fire. does not appear so sensible of the honour in being allied to am Earl as the the other females of the family who are for
for ever talking of him and- making an idol of my lordship. The mother of my beloved has been beautiful is still hand¬ some ; but the confounded old aunt is quite a bore so fond of me and her niece that it would be devilish tiresome were it not for a few politic considerations from the hints she has thrown out of her riches which I have no doubt will center in my wife ; for Mary why I know not seems to be of no consideration in the family.A propos of sifter Mary. She is the very girl for you Bevil; extremely agreea¬ ble genteel and interesting. Her figure is petite but light and animated ; her countenance sweet expressive and senti¬ mental. I believe die has much good sense and they tell me leaded. Were she handsomer — she is too grave for me but for a fellow who chops logic and utters wife sentences she is the very thing; so come and offer your services tovol. i. D sifter
sifter Mary whilst I engage the divine Caroline.If you will not why I have given you sufficient employment to run the town over. and whisper every soul of fashion that Gaywit the laughing insensible Gaywit is enslaved by a pair of the loveliest eyes in the universe and will soon be a Bene- • dict 1Comfort the poor girls for my defection and believe me as much your’s as my own and no compliment neither.GAYWIT.■■LETTER
WOMEN AS THEY ARE. "" fainting fit”" fainting fit”" Well may you weep (said Hie) for we are utterly ruined !"“ Yet dreadful as this event is (returned Lady Gaywit) it is fortunate that it did not take place a month agoI believe my eyes looked reproach; my mo¬ ther’s certainly did. The selfish observation seemed to strike her. “ For you Caroline it was fortunate ; but others of your family may have cause to think different.”I never saw my mother look so displeased with my sister as at that momentsShe felt it and rose up. " I must gp to my lord; we must now think of pro¬ viding ourselves with another town-house.— But dear madam (cried she suddenlyD 6 recollectin•'1Iil■‘’'!
collecting herself) my aunt has no doubt made a will ?"“ She did (answered my mother with a deep sigh) some years ago : I have a copy in my cabinet.""”My mother attempted to rise from the sofa but bursting into tears she again funk back; and giving me the keys di¬ rected me to the drawer where the papers were sealed up endorsed as the last will of Mrs. Mary Cranfield and directed to my mother. She broke the seal with a trem¬ bling hand my filter looked all impa¬ tience. The contents were soon read : " She gave every thing the should die possessed of for the entire use and in the absolute disposal of my mother.”Lady Gaywit looked surprised and dis¬ pleased for a moment but quickly reco¬ vering said""
WOMEN AS THEY ARE.6i" I believe you are mistaken (replied my mother.) She never saved much from * her income and you know she has lately expended a good deal of money; I even doubt if she has left one thousand pounds.”My father knocked at the door; and on his entrance after a flight compliment my sister withdrew. I rose to foltow l^r. — " Stay Maiy (said my father) you only- now are concerned in our future prospects.”'■’‘'Seeing my mother in an agony I turned to comfort her. " Dear fir (cried I) do not enter upon any distressing subjects now.” Tears sprung to his eyes; he took my po¬ ther’s hand and I hastily withdrew.What an unpromising beginning to a marriage so earnestly desired ! How quick the transitions in this life from joy to sor¬ row !—An express was that day sent to Mr. Philip Cranfield. Lord Gay wit wrote to his father and I perceived from several hints
61WOMEN AS THEY ARE.bints that he was desirous of quitting the house of mourning; nor could I blame him : the general gloom that overspread the house accorded not with his feelings nor the transports with which he viewed his lovely wife. Decency however required they should not leave my mother whose grief that night brought on fainting-fits and an alarming illness which for three days terrified her exceedingly. Yesterday the fever abated : the turbulence of sorrow gave way to silent dejection and thank heaven ! she is now out of danger.You know the sensibilities of your little friend and can suppose I have not been an indifferent person all this time. It is true the very little attention I have ever expe- • rienced from Mrs. Cranfield could not give her any great fl) are of my affection; nor could I feel or affect to feel any poignancy of sorrow for her death.—But it is an aw¬ ful hour— an impressive lesson upon a thinking mind when we fee persons snatchedso
WOMEN AS THEY ARE.6Zso suddenly from this world to make up their great account in the world to come. How seldom are the belt of us prepared.for such a momentous event!—But the death of Mrs. Cranfield mult be attended by so many distressing circumstances to my pa¬ rents that my mind is torn with inexprefli- ble anguish to think of their sufferings and what is still more grievous Jets-up- braidings.Ah ! if Caroline has a heart—what mu It she not feel! but self that predominant pafiion in her of self interest has swallowed up every juft and tender consideration; and her woman has been deputed to assist in ta¬ king inventories and making the molt mi¬ nute inquiries relative to the effects of Mrs. Cranfield even when my mother was in molt danger. Good God! what apa¬ thy what selfishness! I have left my mo¬ ther for a few hours to get a little reft but I cannot sleep ; and sensible how un¬ easy you must feel at my silence 1 have written
written thus far to account for it.—One more look upon my sorrowing parent and. I will return to dispatch this with I hope a more cheerful spirit.My dear my reverend friend my heart is burfting ! To communicate may relieve me and in your faithful breast I deposit all my sorrows.When I entered my mother’s apartment the motion of the servant informed me that (lie slept. I seated myself by the fide of the bed. Her hand hung over the clothes j I took it gently in one of mine : it was burning hot. She started frequently and soon waked drawing her hand from mine. "” asked- Lie feebly without turning." No my dear mother; it is your Mary.”She then turned her head with quickness. “ Poor Mary!—It is you indeed •—You mull
must comfort your father:—he is undone my child /""” in a tone of tenderness was more than I could bear. I dropped on my knees killing her hand and watering it with my tears. “ Rife dear Mary; I am very sick ; help me my dear girl.”She was indeed violently affected. The physician just then made his appearance.— I saw by his countenance that my mother was not so well as yesterday. He spoke to her and after a few questions drawing me to the window as the servant was assist¬ ing her — “” demanded he. The ques¬ tion made me shudder for I knew it had always been a matter of doubt ; and when my sister and I were inoculated for that disorder lodgings had been taken for us.When I mentioned this " Depend upon it (said he) the has every symptom of that distemper. I shall be glad to be mistaken for
66WOMEN AS THEY ARE.for the agitation of her mind is by no means favourable.”My father came in that moment. I could not speak. He advanced to the bed. My mother complained of heat sickness and thirst. He was extremely agitated.— The doctor spoke lightly of her complaint and soon after retired with my father. She dropped into a doze for about half an hour and then waked delirious. I was dread¬ fully alarmed. The physician had not left the house: he cam e again to her apart¬ ment. She talked strange and rambling.— He examined her pretty closely and as he left the room said to me " I am con¬ firmed in my judgment the fmall-pox are appearing.”It was like the sentence of death to me and I entreated him to prepare my father and sifter. He nodded assent and left me overwhelmed with grief and anxiety. Soon after my mother grew more composed funk
funk again into a doze and I dole off to give some vent to my anguilh by writing to you.Adieu my beloved friend. Pray for the returning health of my dear parent and the peace of yourDistressedMART ROYLE.LETTER VI.LORD GAYWIT TO BEV1L GARDNER ESQ4T Received your congratulatory epistle this morning and thank you heartily dear Bevil for your friendly wishes. You are offended that the information of my marriage
68"WOMEN AS THEY ARE.marriage comes through the channel of a public newspaper ; but faith ! I have had no inclination ir time to write. My joys have been suddenly interrupted—a kind of tragic drama overclouds the hymeneal torch and the smiling God of Love is su¬ perceded by the grim tyrant Death.To drop metaphor the very night of our marriage an aunt of my beloved's took her departure very quietly to the land of spirits to the great consternation of the fa¬ mily particularly to our mother Mrs. Boyle who has been ill ever since and the physician pronounced this morning that she is in danger of having the small-pox. As I have an utter aversion to the house of mourning and a still greater to the small-pox I would have set off post this very day for town but plague on it! I have now no house to take up my quarters in ; for most unluckily the house which the deceased had given up for our accom¬ modation is lost to us and goes with her jointure
jointure to a hundred and fortieth cousin. This is a devilish drawback but I cannot flay here therefore request you will get me a small furnished house fit for my angel-wife till we can look about us. The old aunt has left all her fortune to our mo¬ ther which is in fact holding it in trust for us as my divine Caroline assures me we ihall have every sixpence of it. When you fee my wife you will adore her. I expect that half my acquaintance will " covet their neighbour's wife” and all the women will expire with envy. Lose no time in procu¬ ring me a residence and fend me the earliest notice. Adieu dear Bevil.Thy sincere and happy friendGATWir.LETTER
LETTER VILMISS BOYLE TO MRS. ROWE.NEVER did the soothing consolations of a friendly heart come more oppor¬ tunely than your’s which I received yester¬ day.—Hope my dear Mrs. Rowe is fled for ever!—My poor suffering mother can¬ not live;— I am sure flic cannot. The doctor has not pronounced her doom but I fee it in his looks and in every symptom of the disorder. Alas! her face once so beau¬ tiful is now entirely deformed by that hor¬ rid distemper ;— her senses deranged her eyes closed a heavy oppreflion at her breast;-all
—all all confirm to me the dreadful cer¬ tainty that in a few short days the will be no more!Great God ! support my dear father in this hour of trial! His sufferings admit of no consolation : he adored his wife and now when other troubles bear hard upon him to lose her will be the climax of misery. My heart is heavily loaded with sorrow —T have your prayers I know :—I can write no more.It is now fix days since I began this letter and this is the firfl: hour I could compose myself to write.-All is over!— and I hope my dear mother is enjoying everlasting felicity in the blessed regions above.—When I broke off so abruptly I was writing in her apartment whilst fire enjoyed a tem¬ porary Heep. She awoke more oppressed and breathed with increased difficulty ; th^. swellings had greatly subsided and her face looked a ghastly pale. Terrified at a change.so
so sudden I sent with all haste for the phy¬ sician ; I saw the nurse was equally alarmed. He came and confirmed all our appre¬ hensions. That night she expired without appearing to know any of us. Oh! my dear Mrs. Rowe never shall I forget that dreadful night; yet what were my suffer¬ ings compared to my father's! Heaven supported him : — he lives a proof that grief cannot always kill nor sorrow burst the heart-strings.—Never did man suffer more than he does but he evidently strug¬ gles to submit with resignation to the di¬ vine decrees and to exist for " my fake”— so he tells me; and I bear all with fortitude astonishing to myself that I may support the declining days of a beloved and revered parent.During this dreadful interval of fix days Mrs. Cranfield'>1Iil*’‘'s remains have been depo¬ sited in the silent tomb and we have re¬ ceived notice that Mr. Cranfield whose fa¬ ther has been dead some years is on his way5 to
to London. With him we have nothing to do and therefore I hope we shall be spared' ' unneceflary visitsMy sifter has really been greatly af¬ fected. She has loft a most tender parents and doubtless such very melancholy events* treading so closely on the heels of joy must deeply wound her feelings. My lord too seems much concerned and will gladly f believe leave this house of sorrow.——Again I break off: I must attend my dear un¬ happy father. Indeed my dear Mrs. Rowe your little friend is no ftoic. Alas! she feels most acutely.What a conversation have I had !— what agonies have wrung the heart of my father! I have—I hope I have assisted his rea¬ son and suggested a plan that will hold out future comfort. — It is briefly this;—to turn all our effects that he lias the power to dispose of into money pay our debts and let the residue be it what it may go towards the produce of the estate for vol. i. E redeeming
so sudden I sent with all haste for the phy* fician ; I saw the nurse was equally alarmed. He came and confirmed all our appre¬ hensions. That night she expired without appearing to know any of us. Oh I my dear Mrs. Rowe never shall I forget that dreadful night; yet what were my suffer¬ ings compared to my father’s I Heaven supported him : — he lives a proof that grief cannot always kill nor sorrow burst the heart-strings.—Never did man suffer more than he does but he evidently strug¬ gles to submit with resignation to the di¬ vine decrees and to exist for " my fake”— so he tells me; and I bear all with fortitude astonishing to myself that I may support the declining days of a beloved and revered parent.During this dreadful interval of fix days Mrs. Cranfield’s remains have been depo¬ lked in the silent tomb and we have re¬ ceived notice that Mr. Cranfield whose fa¬ ther has been dead some years is on his way to5
to London. With him we have nothing to1IilLt‘*1 do and therefore I hope we (hall be spared" unnecessary visitsMy fitter has really been greatly ak- fected. She has loft a moft tender parents and doubtless such very melancholy events* treading so closely on the heels of joy mutt deeply wound her feelings. My lord too seems much concerned and will gladly t believe leave this house of sorrow.-Agairf I break off: I mutt attend my dear un¬ happy father. Indeed my dear Mrs. Rowe your little friend is no ftoic. Alas! (he feels moft acutely.What a conversation have I had!— what agonies have wrung tire heart of my father! I have—I hope I have assisted his rea¬ son and suggested a plan that will hold out future comfort. — It is briefly this;—to turn all our effects that he lias the power to dispose of into money pay our debts and let the residue be it what it may go towards the produce of the estate for vol. i. E redeeming
Redeeming the mortgages. My father will give lip all his property into the hands of trustees for the benefit of my brother and we shall retire into some cheap country .where the interest of the moiety of my mo¬ ther’s .fortune (fix thousand pounds) will support us in ease and affluence.I will not repeat the painful retrospec¬ tions we were obliged to go over nor the distressing emotions they occasioned to both when the late adopted plans came to be investigated. -— Sacred is the confidence re¬ posed in me and may all past transactions be buried in oblivion !I desired my father to acquaint Lady Gay wit with the result of our conversation; and as our plans can no ways militate against her interest ^pd will be the means of keeping connections at a distance from her whose circumscribed income could re¬ flect no honour on her elevated rank nor add one moment’s pleasure to her expected happiness is the gay world; I have no doubt
doubt of hcr”ready concurrence in the pro¬ priety of them.I also entreated him to make no pain¬ ful observations no distressing remarks on past circumstances which could not be re¬ called ; nor by expressing any regrets on my account lessen the affection of a sifter whole regards would be ever dear to me from a conviction that her indifference on molt occasions was more owing to consti¬ tutional coldness than a designed neglect. And I am persuaded I judge truly ; for you have often remarked that Caroline had not a feeling heart and happily for her could shake off sorrow before it reached the bosom and enjoy pleasure even by antici¬ pation : our retirement therefore will not affect her. The gay world will abundantly compensate for the absence of dull rela¬ tions without splendor or titles ; and if we part on good terms and hold a corre¬ spondence much good may result to us both by a mixture of the grave and the gay.E 2 My
My beloved father acquiesced with my wishes ; and embracing me with streaming eyes exclaimed " Never shall I forgive my weakness and infatuation in pursuing for years a system of expencc which reason told me must eventually ruin the interests of you and poor Frederic. Wherever I go reproach and unavailing regrets mult follow and embitter my future days." I could make no reply at that moment but hast¬ ened from him sending a message to my lifter.—She is now with my father and I have seized the opportunity of writing thus far.Write to me my beloved friend my monitrefs and future guide. Every action of my life every sentiment of my heart shall be constantly laid before you ; and As you approve or blame I (hall stand acquit¬ ted or condemned in my own opinion for on you judgment I can rely. Teach me patience and fortitude and the happy art of communicating both to my deeply-af¬ flicted father. ■1Iil|—>'’'Heaven
Heaven bless and preserve you! prays yourObliged and affectionateMART BOXLE.LETTER VIII.LORD GAYWIT TO BEVIL GARDNER ESQ.UPON my soul Bevil! I am devoured with the spleen enveloped in clouds of melancholy; and were I inclined to su¬ perstition should be apt to conclude that the inauspicious events of the last fortnight were full fraught with dismal prognostics of fad interruptions to my expected happiness.E 3 In
In plain words Mrs. Boyle# the mother of my angelic wife has followed her .aunt to the bosom of the earth and was last night resigned to the embraces of the tomb.My charming Caroline has suffered much for Ilie was fond of her mother and claimed all my tender attentions to sooth and con¬ sole her. Thank heaven ! she is this morn¬ ing more composed an^ tranquil and therefore I can spare an hour to thank you for the trouble you have kindly taken and to approve very"mucK*6Fthe house and si¬ tuation. A few days more I dial! be de¬ tained; Thope hof exceeding four ofAa''five and then hasten to-quit f^is abode of for? row. Mr. Boyle and his daughter talk of retiring to Wales or Scotland for' foAe months. I invited them to town but they peremptorily though politely declined itsMrs. Crankeld left her fortune to M#? Boyle. She has died without a will which was plaguy unlucky'■1Iil|—‘’' because; now the property
property must be divided between three which otherwise would have been all mine ; not that / am mercenary or care about the trash ; but the Earl is not so abstract¬ ed. He was taught to expect Mrs. Cran- field’s fortune would be the foie property ot my wife and as the old lady was sup¬ posed to be rich it was no small induce¬ ment with him to consent to our marriage his pride revolting against a private un¬ titled family. How be will bear tlæ dil- appointment I know not; and as he can¬ not retract the settlements 1 care net— In my lovely Caroline I have the wealth of a Nabob. Tomorrow the amount .of:our aunt’s property will be known and when that is settled I dr all speed to town.So you have no inclination .do matri¬ mony and our agreeable and good sister Mary has no attractions for you. — Upon my honour Bevil she is an amiable crea¬ ture and I should rejoice to fee her happily fettled but I will not turn match-maker E 4 nor
Hor would there be hopes for you at pre¬ sent. Thv“nwlan£ht4y:fituatimrf her fa¬ ther engrosses ail her cares and attentions and the is fixed to retire with him into the country where she may vegetate " un¬ knowing and unknown.” Remember me to all our friends. In a few days I (hall assure you in person how sincerely I amYour friendPlant icidc* WWd to do*fend it from -che MLAWtioL <-f my wife’s (harnas - -.ITTTE^
SirLETTER IX. *>1Iil|—fstr 1MISS BOYLE TO MRS. ROWE.AGAIN I resume my pen. It is now a week since I wrote to>1Iilt‘'*1 you s-;:2i2Zz 2- si-Tad and busy week it has been. Your letter my good friend * proved a cordial to my spirits and enabled me to go through scenes most truly painful. In this Melancholy in¬ terval the body of my dear mother has been consigned to the cold ALVe; the foul I humbly trust rejoices in a blessed immor¬ tality. When a dear friend dies it is the survivor is the sufferer; the selfish heart is. not. abstracted enough to relict sorrowE 5 for
Hr WOMEN AS THEY for its loss though sure shat loss ipuft be eterna^gpin to the frjeAd wejamcnt.Alas ! my deaf -mother is released from many unavoidable troubles she was ill cal- culated to bHr. Surely in the decline of life to be ‘deprived of elegancics of com fditSylong habitude has rendered neceflary to her existence- would have been a dis- trefling situation no one that loved her could have with ed her to experience : who. then shall rq)ine at the gracious dispensa¬ tions of ^Providence-? I do not ; I will re¬ joice in her. beatitude and suffer the evi^ 1 may "have to encounter with humble ip- iignatijan and patience ‘T tharik heaved my father though op- yteffed with melancholy is more tranquil more resigned to the past and the futures yet his sufferings have been greatfor oh an investigation irito Mrs. Cranfield’s pro¬ perty it doOr not appear that the whok she had the-¬"1Iil<'‘*' pov/ef to bestow wilb exceed twelve hundred pounds a mere trifle when divided
divided. 1 am sorry to lay my fiftef be¬ haved outrageously on her dilappofhfment: her reflections were cryel and indecent to the memory of the deceased whole- ac¬ counts proved that (he had expended D?ar a thousand pounds in presents forher nuyp tials of jewelsand clothes; beside^giyipg her the chief part of her own. trinkets^ therefore certainly the had no right to-com* plain.There has been a degree of cunning in Caroline’s conduct that hurts me. The jewels &c. purchased with this thousand pounds have been carefully concealed and unacknowledged to my father or'°"' myself; nor should we have known it but from the examination of her papers. My father gave her a look of reproach but said no¬ thing: I spoke not a word. To do my lord juslice he has behaved infinitely better than my sifter though with more right to complain- as I find he has deem de> ceived. .E 6 What
$4 asa Sriking keWn do-the late-evenk md^fyhM'" 'E is the ambitious ahi ^tfiving heart ! Poor- Mrs. Cran- 6eld Whose2 2 through life was to fee kMdfallfed•'■-¬‘ 'W Bobi^hy *nd her beautiful niece become We *ife E * M»r x on the •'■’‘'very day tilit theio-rntKh-ddjfiQd alliance look place became ® IWsfs coarse and all kef■•'’‘ ' splendid expectations cut off by the. grim tyrant in the very hour of exulta¬ tion. May the disappointment rest with her and nos extend further 1.We have been so expeditious that all our aSairsareinatrain to be fettled.Trustees have beenappointed for the estate and my brother’s expences. He is tp be placed with an emir uent barrister (his own choice) where he will attain the knowledge of a profession that may be useful to him;■ and if hereaf¬ ter he wants not its emoluments it may at least assist him in the management of his estateLord
AS THAY 4^Lordaad -Lady Gaywit took leave s yesterday. The latter. a little ashamed ^f her late behaviour requested to hear from me which I very readily prdMfed. With¬ in a fortnight. we -(hall quit England ; that is my father and myself.. We purpose going through Scotland and wherever we- find a place congenial to our wishes we (hall fix our residence. Our dear Frederic is expected to-morrow : my father will fee him advantageously settled before our de¬ parture.—I feel for him ; he is old enough to be hurt at the surprising change in our circumstances.. For my part the transac¬ tions of the last month appear like a fear¬ ful dream to me sometimes and I can scarce credit that “ such things arebut the sight of my dear father’s pallid face and fable habit too surely evinces the dreadful reality. and overwhelms me with sorrow not less poignant because I endeavour to disguise it that I may not more deeply wound my suffering parent.—I am summoned to the parlour jL
36 WOMEN AS THEY ARB. parlours Mt. Cranfield is there. — We could hive fpariecl this visit.I retract my words dear madam I am charmed with Mr. Cranfield; What think you was the purport of his visit ? (in con¬ sequence 1 mutt believe of a minute en¬ quiry into our circumstances.) " He in¬ treated pardon for an intrusion perhaps un¬ warrantable ; but having always understood he had accidentally stepped in between the juft pretensions of the late Mrs. Cranfield and her niece he had unwillingly possessed himself of a fortune he had no claims to; but he was not at liberty consistent with the duty he owed to a numerous family to reject that good which Providence had so unexpectedly dispensed to him. He was the more reconciled as he heard Mr. Boyle was possessed of a large fortune and his lady of a handsome one. In the course of seventeen years many revolutions had ta¬ ken place in his family. His parents were  po more ; his filters happily married ; his brother
WOMEN AS THEY ARE; >7 brother well settled and himself a bachelor his estate improving and .money every day accumulating as he was no expensive man. The jointure fallen in to him by Mrs. Cranfield’s death he did not want ; he came therefore to request my father would do him the inexpressible pleasure of.accept¬ ing the regular remittance of that eight hundred a year he had been accustomed to draw for in his aunt’s life-time and he would ensure the payment of it for Mr. Boyle’s life and to Miss Boyle as long ps the should remain unmarried.”Here was nobleness of heart and unex¬ ampled generosity !—We were both speech¬ less : he law our emotions. “ Pardon me fir (continued he) for enforcing my re- quest. You will inexpressibly oblige me by condescending to grant it.”My father could no longer repress his feelings; (tears had already begun lo Uray down my cheeks.) “ Noblest of men!said
st WOMBS AV T8Er LET.said he greatly agitated) I admire I eft teem yot4 beyond expftÆon ! and should I ever -want for myself or that good girl any pecuniary aid; you. shall find how I honour yt»> by an immediate applica¬ tion for your afii (fence ; but now sir We have enough foe M our wants. We are going to travel 5 the income we possess is sufficient for cur purpose. Susser US to enjoy peace and independence;—a fetife obligation would entirely destroy our Mm of comfort. We wish to obtain a tranquil kind of. life incompatible with a cbnseloUP- '1Iil|—‘’' ness of obligation and dependence. I have Ibng been a stranger to peaceI am now going in pursuit of it. Permit me there¬ fore to decline peremptorily your uncom¬ monly generous offer. — I again repeat should I eves Want your assistance. ! wH freely require* it; and to no other map living will I owe obligations of a pecuniary nature.”■•"'-¬-¬ '
WOMEN AS THEY ARE.s-" If you do MS justice (faidMr. Cran- ncld) you would esteem Ms as the obliged person by your acceptance of what I con¬ sider your right; for I have no doubt but that every shilling I .possess would have been your property had not the late Mr. Cranfield met with me; you will therefore confer the favour and I shall still feel my¬ self largely your debtor;—but if you re¬ fuse to oblige me Miss Boyle I hope will have the goodness to reconcile me to myself by an acceptance."" Pardon me for interrupting you (I re¬ plied ;) my sentiments do so exactly accord with my father’s that I intreat you fir to drop your generous purpose and accept from us the most grateful fenfiblity of your goodness. You came here I am sure to communicate pleasure ; cease then to op¬ press us with your kindness and let me welcome yon as an old friend of our fa¬ mily ! in that light but in no other can you Ave or receive pleasure."He
pO WOMEN AS THEY ARE■"-¬'‘’*'.He rose from his chair and walked about much agitated : we were silent. He resumed his feat.— " It mutt be as you please.— You afflict vou disappointment me ; but remember in all emergencies I -am your banker: draw for what sums you please I will be answerable.-You talk of travelling ; may I ask your route ?"“ To Scotland fir” replied my father.He mused a little.— “Your second daughter is I hear married to a nobleman; but your son where is he ;—Pardon my freedom; I am an " old friend””My father frankly explained to him the •situation in which he had placed my bro¬ ther and his future views for him. The other heard him with attention and warmly approved of his conduct. We then en¬ tered into a more general conversation.—- He was asked to stay dinner to which he readily assented. and I left them preparing for a walk in the gardens.Tell
Tell me my dear friend if you are not charmed with this noble-minded generous man ? He is very little on the wrong fide of forty; a good height an open manly countenance — a penetrating eye that meets your’s with a friendly confidence and a heart I am sure fraught with e/ery virtue thatc^n dignify human nature. ■ ■ But if I (ay much more you will suspect that Z have wo heart; and to fay truth I believe I like Mr. C ran field better than any man except my fatherthat is I esteem and revere him : with any other affection I am unacquainted ; and as there V not more than two or three years between the age of him and my father consequently I may be allowed to profess respect and ad¬ miration.Mr Cranfield passed the night here and left us this morning. I think we parted with a reciprocity df esteem that will only terminate with our lives. We have pro¬ mised to correspond with him and to makehim
him our agent upon all occasions. " As a proof that you mean me fairly (said he) that you with for my friendship accept this pocket-book or you call me off for ever."I hesitated and retreated. Mary (said my father) refuse not the pledge of friend- flup.— I hope fir ydu do not abuse my confidence."" No oh my honour (answered the other) I will not wound your delicacy.— This trifle is entirely the test and cement of a friendly regard I presume to solicit from Miss Boyle ; and if refused (added he smiling) would have broken the heart of an "”Kissing my hand and shaking my father’s he left the room mounted his horse and gallopped out of sight“”. '.°>"";. ■ -I
" I hope not (replied my father :) but be it what it may it was impossible to refuse it so urged.”I opened it. Five notes of a hundred pounds each were in one of the pockets with a slip of paper:—" This trifle may assist the amiable and generous Miss Boyle when the wishes to diffuse pleasure or com¬ fort. Grudge not a kindrcti mind the supreme delight of participation.”“ Good God I (I exclaimed) what a roble foul ! Well does he deserve riches ! Dear sir why sliould such a man live in an obscure corner of the kingdom ?— He ought to be a prince.”My father smiled at my enthusiasm but confessed that he honoured the discern¬ ment of the late Mr. Cranfield in thus distinguishing true worth. Tins visit of Mr. Cranheld’s has been of infinite service to us by giving birth to. new .ideas and a subject for conversation. I have no doubt but
but he lias by enquiries understood the embarrassment of our circumstances and from that knowledge generously came to visit us. I admire his generosity at the fame time that I feel mortified in being the object: of it; but I molt certainly shall appropriate his present to communicate “ pleasure and comfort” whenever I fee a deserving unfortunate person that wants either.My dear Frederic comes to-morrow. I shall have much employment. His com¬ pany will I truss amuse my [dear father though he tells me he shall blush before his boy whom he has so greatly wronged; but even painful ideas if of a different complexion may tend to alleviate that grief which bears hard upon him though he ftruggles for composure that he may speak consolation to me. I have indeed suffered so much with a variety of distres¬ sing circumstances within this last month that my health is not very good and my spirits
spirits much worse ; but time and patience are never failing remedies.God bless you dear Mrs. Rowe. Believe me alwaysYour affectionate friendMARY BOYLE.LETTER X.LADY GAYWIT TO MISS BOYLE.MY dear dear Mary I am in Elysium ! Only five days in town and al¬ready enraptured with my new situation.— Lord child! why> we knew nothing—/^ nothing when we came to town for twoor
0WOMEN AS THEY ARE.« three months in our humdrum way with our old coach and odd-fa£hioned har¬ ness with a father mother Mid an old aunt. I have indeed heard my mother fay that in former days .when we were confi¬ ned to the nursery or under the dominion of that formal crab Mrs. Rowe in those days she used to mix with the gayest of the gay throng; was admired caressed sighed for and toasted as the beautiful Mrs. but of late years you know the could not figure away so much and growing fat and out of shape she was no longer a beauty. Younger folks sprung up and she was forced to give place; therefore child we know nothing of life I assure you.I have the sweetest house in the world commanding a view of the Green Park. A very pretty fellow a friend of my lord?Ff' 's came the evening of our arrival to welcome us to town and said in my hearing that I was an angel. My lord was in the belt spirits
spirits imaginable though between you and I Mary he had much cause to be otherwise; for you must allow that aunt Cranfield deceived us greatly. I thought the old foul was worth eight or ten thou¬ sand pounds which would have been a pretty addition ; but a few paltry hundreds my lord fays will scarcely pay for my opera¬ box.The Earl is confined still with the gout but hopes to be in town shortly with Lady Almeria who is very handsome very gay and much admired.—But married women are the ton and therefore I fear not Lady Almeria were my attractions less. For three days I have been surrounded with trades-folks and lived incog my doors shut to every one but my lord's friend ; but to-morrow an aunt of Gaywit’s is to be admitted when I shall have a few pri¬ vate parties but shall not appear in public till after I am introduced.vol. i. ■ F I hope
98WOMEN AS THEY ARE.I hone my father is well and in better spirits than when I left him; — you also my dear Mary. When do you set out on your Scotch expedition ? Is Frederic to be sent to College or abroad for educa¬ tion? or rather to complete his educa¬ tion ? Pray inform me of every thing and when I have time I (hall fend you such delightful intelligence such enchanting de¬ tails of every place and eveiy thing that it will serve to amuse you in your travels for which in return I shall expect: an ac¬ count of all your adventures in the North.Pray give me great credit for this epistle for I have fifty things to fay and to do and the Lord knows how tnany people waiting for me. Adieu my dear sifter; my lord’s love and our joint duty to my dear father.Affectionately your’sC M. GAT WIT.How provoking ! I cannot be introdu¬ ced till my first mourning is over and I had
had set my heart upon going next Thurs¬ day ; so my lord says we Hi all go to Bath for a month.—O horrid ! a letter this mo¬ ment from the Earl desiring we will come immediately to Stanton-Place because a " large party of relations are coming there on a visit and ’tis proper we should meet them.” Hang relations! I wish there was no such thing :—to go into the country to be made a shew of among a parcel of old maidens young simpletons and hobbling white wigs!—so here’s a house to be left with servants which I intended making a Pa¬ radise of—the Bath journey set aside—the town amusements given up and all for a group of country cousins and a gouty old fellow I don’''t care for!—Sure I am very un^ fortunate!F 2 LETTER
LETTER XLMISS BOYLE TO I ADY GAYWIT.My dear SifterIN opening your letter the laft sentence "" was the first that met my eyes and made me shudder. I hastily run over the contents in fearful expectation; but when I came to the conclusion I really could not sup¬ press my indignation at the levity which had dictated such an expression to your pen. Surely my dear sifter you could not with to be introduced into public so soon after the iecent death of a parent who doated on
on you (to fay nothing of Mrs. Cranfield’s death and the subsequent disagreeable cir¬ cumstances to your family.) A feeling heart I know too well is not always a bles¬ sing to its possessor; but a female mind devoid of tenderness and sensibility is an unnatural moniter; nor will I for a mo¬ ment think it possible that your heart had any share in the idle rattle of your pen : it was a wicked quill which I hope is thrown into the fire and that by this time you are exerting all your agreeable talents to render yourself pleasing in the eyes of Lord Gaywit’s father and relations. Your own happiness is so materially concerned in de¬ serving their approbation that I cannot entertain a doubt of your endeavours to obtain it.I admire your spirits: I love your play¬ ful gaiety; let both be under the dominion of prudence and decorum and you may challenge respect as well as admiration. If I “ play the elder sifter” as you have often spor-F 3 lively
tively told me pardon me dear Caroline ; be assured it proceeds from the warm in- terest I take in your happiness and be- cause I know how much the future peace of our dear father depends upon the con- duA of his children..He is still extremely low at times though he exerts his bell endeavours I am sure to hide it from me ; but he is pale thin and often loft in thought. Our dear Fre¬ deric has been here three days ; he is a charming boy but is neither designed for the College nor a foreign education. He willies to be a professional man ; the law is his choice and to that ftudy he will soon dedicate his time. I am much delighted with him. An idle young man is an useless member of society; employment will preserve him from a thousand errors. The law is an honourable profession may be useful to him hereafter and the allies of it will be always optional.In
In about ten days he will be fettled and the day for our departure is fixed. Hea¬ ven grant that the journey may be pro¬ ductive of health and peace to our dear parent! I shall rejoice to leave this house where every step I tread reminds me of a hundred painful circumstances that no time can obliterate. What may be our future lot I know not but I think the worst is past. There is only one event that can be any addition to the sorrows I have felt and heaven avert that for many many years.May you my dear and fortunate sifter be happy! Pleasing prospects are before you; may no dark cloud intervene to throw a gloom over them ! To deserve happiness is to attain it ; for conscious in¬ nocence defies the arrows of adversity.Present my best respects to Lord Gaywit. Our dear father fends every affectionate wish with his blessing to you and his lord¬ ship : Frederic’s love.-Write often; theF 4 contents
contents will be a sacred deposit in the bosom of*Your sincere and affectionateMART BO I LE.LETTER XII.LADY GAYWIT TO MISS BOYLE.T N D E E D my dear Maty you are as grave and sententious as any old virgin of fifty-five. Would any mortal believe that the letter I received from you was writ¬ ten by a pretty lively delicate young woman under twenty ? — Pray my dear girl do-not monopolize the wisdom of the ancients.
■•'’‘ ' WOMEN AS THEY ARE. IO£ ancients. I know you are too good to feel envy but some ill-natured observers would be apt to think from the grave and me¬ lancholy turn of your letter that the younger sifter being a lady had given that gloomy colouring to your pen which finds so much fault with the levity of mine. But I do you more juftice because I know you better.I beg you will be undeceived however in supposing happiness in wy power. I assure you of the contrary.—Was it my wish to leave the enchanting town and be moped to death with a parcel of old tabbies ? — No indeed ! I am as cross as any disappointed virgin in the kingdom.— My lord's fondness is quite tiresome; the Earl’s compliments a repetition that dit- gufts from the insipidity of the person; and were it not for the entertainment I carve out for myself from some odd cha¬ racters here I should be literally a walking ftatue of discontent.F 5 Stanton-
Stanton-Place is a sweet flace to those that like the country but I have had my fill; and as to the inmates you shall judge from my description..As in duty bound I shall begin with the Earl. In person he is tall large-boned and hard featuredyet there is an air of grandeur that imprests you. with a respect: for his dignity. He speaks freely (hearty curses sometimes when he has a twinge of the gout) appears to be excessively fond qf pretty women who I believe he likes better than any thing—except his money. He delights in talking of his ancestry and of his juvenile adventures; these are his fa¬ vourite themes.I have the honour to be a prodigious fa¬ vourite ; first because I am handsome and secondly because I assume to the full as much dignity as himself which increases. my consequence with him.-Not so with the Lady Almeria. I had been taught to qxpect: a beauty;—no such thing. She is neither.
neither tall nor short but an insipid me¬ dium : lhe is neither fair nor brown but a clear skin with a faint tint of vermil¬ lion over it which seems to give animation. A pair of expressive grey eyes and tolerable eye-brows with a pretty-enough turned cheek and a Grecian nose complete the face. Her neck is handsome. She is nei¬ ther fat nor thin ; rather elegant in her manners but not inviting either love or con¬ fidence. From this negative fort of descrip¬ tion you may conceive Lady Almeria is no beauty. Indeed when I draw near her conscious of the amazing difference between us she always fits down and measures me with her eye but not with an eye of pleasure. She is very lively like you; loves reading and: dotes on her father like you ; but unlike you she is very vain very fond of admiration and very fond of the town when the Earl is not in the country.—Such is Lady Alme¬ ria and our hearts as little accord as our persons..The;
The honourable Mr. and Mrs. Grantham are a pair of originals; our first cousins.— . The gentleman is near sixty the lady about thirty a parson’s daughter " fair and foolish” and the moll conceited creature in the world always affecting ill-health to shew her power over the old man’s feelings;— too delicate to eat (except in her own room where I am assured. the devours a plate .full of buttered toast for breakfast and has always some reserves of cakes for occasional meals.) the wonders how women can be so .robust to take hearty dinners; the wing or breast of a chicken is enough for her her frame is so delicate the cannot bear the air to meet lier—unleis a pretty fellow is by her tide. In short tire is a lump of affectation with no other recommendations to notice than a very fair skin which is lb eternally admired by her lover that it is quite sur¬ feiting to be near them.The next and most consequential per- . fonage is Mrs. Eleanor Stanton a great aunt
aunt of my lord’s by the father’''s fide and a beauty of the last age if she ever were a beauty at all—a matter I am often inclined to dispute with her because Ilie laments the degeneracy of the present age the decrease of beauty the loss of decorum and mo- desty the total want of good-breeding the shameful mismanagement of money and neglect of economy; and above all the conceit and forwardness of young wo¬ men who talk freely with the men hold by their arms admit them to their dressing- rooms &c. &c.In her days a few years ago ladies were admired for their modesty and domestic ta¬ lents for their reserve and delicacy; but now she protests she is every moment thrown into confusion and blushes by the imperti¬ nence of men and the indelicacy of women or rather young flirts who fancy themselves women most of whom though married ought still to be confined to the nursery.Such are the sentiments of aunt Eleanqr. 1 have set my heart upon teazing her.Next
Next comes Sir Roger Penrickard and his new married lady (a second wife) and a great tall daughter of sixteen who has been brought up all her life at Penrickard-Castle in Cornwall where (he Ipent her time in feeding the poultry running wild upon the moor or reading romances—is the greatest novice you ever beheld in the knowledge of the world—quite a Cælia in the woods but wonderfully learned in knight-errantry and will not suffer so much as the tip of her little finger to be touched by a man :—she is of course a prodigious favourite with our maiden aunt— is rather pretty and Jenti- mental forsooth— a dangerous tendency. when united to romance and ignorance of. the world.Sir Roger is a good jolly knight a literal old foul—blusters for his king and coun¬ try though not much acquainted with either the chief extent of his knowledge being confined to tin mines and pilchards. which*
which he conceives to be the great wealth of the nation.His lady is a different kind of a person and my great aversion. She is near thirty and tolerably handsome the daughter of a lord who had mortgaged great part of his estates to Sir Roger and was so considera¬ bly indebted to him that he was under apprehensions for the consequences. He received a visit from Sir Roger whilst he was in the country with his daughter. Sir Roger’s business was of an unpleasant na¬ ture but molt fortunately he was it ruck dumb by the charms of the lady and forgot his errand.The father and daughter had cunning enough to perceive the sudden impression and the advantages were too great to be neglected.. The young lady had been exhibited above ten years in the fashiona¬ ble world but the want of fortune had les¬ sened her attractions and she remained a spinster (not very willingly I am sure.)—6 The
The consideration of marrying an immense fortune of being her own mistress^. and governing her husband infinitely overba¬ lanced the trifling drawback of above thirty years difference in age the unpo- lithed manners and robust figure of Sir Roger and the incumbrance of a tall daughter.Governed by prudential motives she spared no pains to enslave the heart and foul of the admiring knight who at length took courage to apply to the father. What were the preliminaries or agreement is un¬ known but the marriage was soon conclu¬ ded with a noble settlement on the lady. My lord appeared free from his embarrass¬ ments and Sir Roger the most obliged and happiest man alive.They have been married about four months and the lady’s family being nearly related to the Earl Sir Roger his lady and daugh¬ ter were invited here for a month ontheir
WOMEN AS THEY ARE."Ztheir coming to town after the wedding.— The old man dotes on his wife who keeps him in leading strings and submits impli¬ citly to her unquestionable superior judg¬ ment.-She is excessively vain insuffera¬ bly arrogant eternally talking of the gay and great world and looking with con¬ tempt on those less acquainted with fashion¬ able circles than herself—a great coquet and fond of engrossing all the attention of the gentlemen. In short I hate her;— there is a fort of rivalship already commen¬ ced between us for the admiration of Mb beaux who yet remain to be described.Sir James Nichols is I suppose near forty but he is the very foul of fashion and elegance; so attentive so insinuating his compliments so gratifying and his ac¬ knowledged reputation for fashionable man¬ ners so high that he confers honour and distinction wherever he visits and his ap¬ probation establishes the claim of a pretty woman to general admiration. To eb distinguished
distinguished by such a man must be the wish of every woman and on that theme will I contend with the odious Lady Pen- rickard.Mr. Gardner Lord Gaywit’s friend who was our first visitor and attended us here is younger than Sir James and a prettier fellow of the two ; but he is grave senti¬ mental and so respectful and distant in his devoirs that it will take time and trouble to animate him ; yet the conquest would be gratifying because of the difficulty.— Lady Pen shall not have that I am determined.So now dear Mary you know the whole group at Stanton-Place and I must be stupid indeed if I do not pick up amuse¬ ment whilst I am condemned to stay here.I am sorry to hear our father still con¬ tinues so indifferent in health and spirits. Travelling will I trust restore both. I cannot fay I approve of "Frederic’s choice.A young
A young lad of spirit might have appeared to more advantage in the army with a bet¬ ter chance of fettling well in life for a red coat and a cockade is a never-failing re¬ commendation to our sex ;—but I suppose he has some of his dear sifter’s antediluvian notions and will be poring over old mufty folios inftead of paying court to the ladies; —so much the worse for him.Write to me of every thing you fee and hear. In return I will be very good and without reserve give you intelligence of all our motions here. Aunt Stanton to whom I affect great civility has given me the his¬ tory of our cousins; and I fee Hie hates Lady Pen more than she dislikes me I will be on her fide at present.Adieu my dear Mary; I expect another sermon : I will be as good as I can andYour affectionate fifterC M GAY WIT
My lord joins me in love and duty.— Pray give me great credit for this long letter.LETTER XIII.MISS BOYLE TO MRS. ROWE.TN three days my dear friend we (hall begin our journey. Frederic is fettled to his perfect: satisfaction. My father has suc¬ ceeded in arranging his affairs much better than he expected and we shall begin our tour tolerably comfortable.My sifter and Lord Gaywit are on a visit to Stanton-Place. I understand she is in high
high favour with the Earl. Heaven grant Ihe may continue to preserve his esteem.— She has promised to correspond with me though the rambling life we are about to commence must impede regular returns as we (hall not always know our destina¬ tion.Every circumstance that can afford you pleasure or information you may rely on from me as I know you will be interested for the happiness of your little friend. A thousand adieus my loved monitrefs. Con¬ tinue your advice and instruction toYour ever grateful and affectionateMARY-BOYLE.letter4
118 women as they are.LETTER XIV.MISS BOYLE TO LADY GAYWIT."”—Alas! no my dear lifter. Ta A sermon would not catch a single glance of your eye ; you know what is right and you fee what is wrong;—to what purpose then should I write lectures which if read whilft they militate againft your pre¬ dominant passions will be disregarded.If you fee vanity and coquetry odious in Lady Penrickard affectation disgusting in Mrs. Grantham and folly conspicuous in the conduct of others you want no glass to point
point the ridicule no monitor to warn you against the contagion. The picture is be¬ fore you : turn from it with contempt and abhorrence and let your conduct be re¬ gulated by good sense propriety and af¬ fection to your husband and his relations. The very best of us have foibles which if placed in a ludicrous or malicious point of view will turn the laugh against us or in¬ spire dislike and scorn.Your wit is too poignant—your passions too lively. It is much easier to provoke resentment and incur hatred than to conciliate affection and esteem. Prejudices once conceived are difficult to eradicate; therefore let those you give birth to be on the favourable fide ; for be assured it is always worth while to acquire esteem and respect even from persons indifferent to us.-Here ends the “ sermon” and now begins the affectionate solicitude of a sifter.Beauty
Beauty however captivating seldom ob¬ tains more than a transient admiration without the possessor has "” The affection inspired by a form only can have no durability for that will fade and even the charm of novelty will sometimes supercede beauty when grown familiar to the eye. You are not ignorant of these truths; then surely my dear Caroline it behoves you to cherish such amiable qualities as may procure to you respect and efteem.Flirting and coquetry are disgraceful to any woman but unpardonable in a married one. She who wishes to engage the atten¬ tion of other men trifles with her hus¬ band’s peace and dances on the edge of a precipice where the least false step en¬ dangers the destruction of her honour character and happiness for ever ! What is Sir James or Mr. Gardner to you ?— As acquaintances of your husband’s while they observe that respect due to your character
character as a wife and a woman of honour they are entitled to your civility in return ; but if they forget your situation and ad¬ dress you in the language of adulation—if they seek to obtain more attention from you by flattery than by the reverence due to you as a married woman shun fly them my dear Caroline as you would vipers who lie in ambush to fling you to death. Assume that consequence attached to your character and even libertines will respect you. If you wish to “” over the follies of others let it be by the superiority of your virtues and good conduct and glo¬ rious will be your !Forget my dear sifter that I am not twenty ; but consider that from the in¬ structions of a father and the unremit-- ting attention of our worthy governess Mrs. Rowe—from a serious and reflecting turn of mind I have been in the habits of study and observation which hundreds of young women who live in the gay world vol. i. G are
are unhappily deprived of: suffer me then to speak my mind freely and also to entreat your confidence in return. Have no re¬ serves ; for be assured no person will be more indulgent than myself nor any one so truly anxious for your happiness and fu¬ ture peace.— To-morrow we shall begin our tour. My father intends spending a few days at York ; write therefore I entreat you a account of every thing that passes at Stanton-Place. I am deeply interested in the events and your confi¬ dence shall be sacred. Direct: to be left at the post-house in York or Berwick. Fre¬ deric is fettled to his wish : he will write to you.—Our dear father's love and blessing. Adieu my dear Caroline it may be long be¬ fore I fee you but my affectionate wishes for your happiness will be constantly your’s.MART BOYLE.LETTER
LETTER XV.LADY GAYWIT TO MISS BOYLE.MERCY on me 1 why my dear girl you have written an ejsay !—matter enough for a half-dozen sermons! and all for what ?—to rail against beauty wit and spirit—to make a respectable frigid grand¬ mother of a young woman not eighteen.— 0 dear O dear!—wisdom will come—when it may and your 1Iil'’'ectures prove a good substitute until Minerva appear in per¬ son.G r You
You are the most unreasonable young Mentor in the world. You solicit my con- fidvnce and then turn my ingenuousness against myself; and when I have such a world of business on my hands require a “” narrative of proceedings that you may write frelh lectures.—Very modest and reasonable ! — and I a good- natured docile creature sit down to comply with such an encroachment upon my plea¬ sures and patience with all the consequences before my eyes.-No matter while I only mean to divert the tedious hours to beguile the time of moping and mourning I shall be perfectly satisfied with my inten¬ tions and keep clear of the " precipice” which alarms your imagination. After this preamble I expect your fears do not out¬ strip my actions nor doubt my abilities to extricate myself from seeming perplexities whenever I please.I am crowned with laurels for I have humbled Lady Pen by attracting the sole attention
attention of our two beaux and have ab- (blutely like another Iphigenia warmed "” of Mr. Gardner.— 1 protest to you that I care not sixpence for cither him or Sir James but the ap¬ probation of the one stamps you into fa- snion and there is a superlative pleasure in tubduing the frozen gravity of the other into a dying inamorato.My 1 ird laughs at my playfulness and is dflighted with the admiration that I excite. The Earl is pleased with my wit; Sir Roger flares at me without knowing whether he should applaud or not left his “” should lecture him.Mr. Grantham is so taken up with ad- miniftering to the delicate appetite and languithiug affectation of his lady (who I can fee withes him in the other world) that all n / airs and graces are loft upon that old insensible. But could you fee the spiteful glances of Lady Pen (I never canG 3 write
write the whole of her odious name) the al¬ lurements she vainly throws out to attract the notice of Sir James the malicious sarcasms (he is perpetually venting against young flirts and the blindness of some husbands while the is throwing herself into a thou¬ sand attitudes to display her own charms; even the serenity of your countenance my grave sifter would be deranged. I join very heartily in all her declamations with the most provoking contemptuous noncha- lence imaginable and by my sneers rebound the ball againft herself.—Thus we.seem the prettieft friends in the world whilst we are talking at each other.But we have a tragedy-scene in embrio or I am mistaken. ^The gay and coquetifli Lady Almeria is certainly far gone in the tender passion for Sir James he "" for another. The romantic Maria Pen- rickard “ sighs and looks and sighs again" St Mr. Gardner a man old enough to be the chit’s father;—but his sedate and sentimental
sentimental speeches with a few compli¬ ments absolutely ironical ones on her rage for books has so delighted and gratified the poor thing’s darling passion that she is lost in gratitude and adoration.Aunt Eleanor to whom I pay great court just now this morning observed to me the strange alteration in Maria. I pretended to think it resulted from ill health and the indifferent treatment die met with from her mother-in-law. This set up Mrs. Eleanor; Hie began to abuse Lady Pen most heartily was quite scandalized at her conduct and fiiocked at the liberties married women al¬ lowed themselves. I thought die had more than one in her eye but did not choose to apply it to myself pretended to coincide with her and observed there was great dif- terence between a constitutional gaiety that meant no harm and the languilhing airs a lady of thirty exhibited." You are right niece (said she;) (he ought to take pattern by me: she does not G 4 see
see me flirt with the men and expose my person as the shamefully does though it would be more pardonable in me to violate decorum than a married woman and a mo- ther-in-law. But the fashion of the present day is so changed from what it was some years ago when I was a girl—every thing is so indecorous such a violation to virgin- modesty that I am shocked every hour of my life by the conduct of those about me."I perfectly agreed with her and lamented that fashion and an apprehension of being thought a rustic and disgracing my lord’s tafte obliged me to dress differently from what I had been accustomed to. This won her heart ; we had a long conversation at the expence of the absent and for many reasons I am now determined to keep in with aunt Nell.-A summons to dinner.Mary men are deceitful wretches ; wo¬ men blind infatuated and credulous 1— After dinner the Earl requested I would play
play Piquet with him. He had been so very civil I could not well decline it and my little familiar was not at hand to fug¬ ged a plausible excuse so I accompanied him to the library and being careless and out of humour I suffered him to win every game by which 1 won bis heart and at length obtained my freedom.My good or evil genius I know not which put it into my head to droll into the ihrub¬ bery which is a very large and a very fine one with several feats inclosed among the drubs so as to be unperceived until you are close upon them. I had seated myself in a small alcove when suddenly I heard voices speaking low at the back of it. The flowers and foliage made it impenetrable to the view but as the voices seemed stationary and I distinguished the odious croaking of Lady . Pen my curiosity made me guilty of mean¬ ness and I listened.To my infinite astonishment I heard Sir James faying a thou laud tender thingsG 5 and-
and the most extravagant compliments on her beauty swearing he was dying for her and that she was the most charming woman in the world. She had the impudence to aL his opinion of me." Certainly Lady Gaywit was a lovely young woman but she was too much of s girl to please him. He admired and praised her as any man must but Gaywit had been witless and infatuated when he mar¬ ried such a mere child.”Can you wonder if worked into mad¬ ness I burst upon them upbraided and exposed them as they deserved ? Such indeed were my first emotions but instant reflection retained me in my place. Like most other eaves-droppers I heard much more than I liked or shall repeat;—but a desire of revenge supported me and if I do not make him repent of his contempt of his " meer child” and the poor pun on Gaywit—if I do not render her both ri¬ diculous and contemptible I will be con¬ tent to be thought a child as long as I live.My
My bosom was in tumults but I out- stayed them (admire my patience!) though I understood they separated in the shrubbery. With consummate art they have conducted themselves he pretending to be dying for me and the appearing vexed at the atten¬ tion he paid to me. I confess my self¬ consequence is wounded but if I am not gloriously revenged I am not a woman. I am now out of humour with myself and all the world yet I am going to the company in the drawing room like the "” Farewell dear Mary ; let me hear of all your peregrinations and adventures. Perhaps you may find another letter at Berwick. — Love and duty to our dear father.Ever sincerely your’s„C. M. GATWIt.6 6EETTER
LETTER XVLLADY GAYWIT TO MISS BOYLE-WRITE I mull for I have no confi¬ dante here but dame Eleanor and my schemes are not ripe enough for a com¬ munication to her. I know you will blame me my precise sifter but reflect on my provocations and make proper allowances.I commanded my feelings most wonder¬ fully yesterday when I entered the drawing- room ; smiled on Lady Pen languished tenderly on Mr. Gardner and received the little attentions of Sir James with an obliging politeness.
politeness. In short I pleased every one and the Earl once in a rapture exclaimed that " Gaywit was the luckiest fellow in the universe to have such a wise" and pinned me close to his fide for the evening where I exerted every art to please him and ob¬ tain admiration from others.Almeria who is certainly in love with that deceitful wretch Sir James has loft all her vivacity and coquetry ; flic poor thing suspects me of being her rival and I could Ice was tortured to death by the notice 1 drew from him. The little romantic Maria locked at me with envy and anxiety and Pen with eyes of spite and jealousy. / ex¬ ulting in my own consequence viewed them with an air of superiority and disdain af¬ fecting in my manners great complacency whenever they ventured to address me.— Oh ! it was a scene of !—Sir Roger seemed like a snail shrinking into its shell afraid to speak or look.. The whole group were perplexed or mortified for I succeededin
in drawing both gentlemen after me where* xver I moved.I Kill continue the vulgar custom of rising what is called very early here though two hours later than my good sifter I'll be sworn—nine o’clock. This morning was uncommonly fine : I wanted to indulge in my own reveries so escaped into the garden.In a short time I saw Sir James walking towards me. The wretch joined me and said a thousand fine things on the brilliancy of my complexion a number of tender exclamations and a profusion of heart-felt sighs—to all which I made no reply till tenderly reproaching my disdainful silence I stopped short looking him full in the face then turned round : “ Bless me ! (I exclaimed) I protest I thought Lady Pen- rickard was behind to whom you were ad- dressing all these pretty things. Is it possi¬ ble they can be designed for me ?""“ Ah ! (cried he throwing the moft dy¬ ing look into his eyes) and “” the divine Lady Gaywit can for a moment suppose any other object: deserving of adora¬ tion but herself ? — Are my senses hood¬ winked or my taste so depraved in her eyes that she mentions a woman so infinitely be¬ neath her in every attraction that it is a degree of profanation to attempt a compa¬ rison.”I will not repeat to you my answer nor the ensuing conversation but I insifted upon his publicly affronting Lady Pen as a proof of his sincerity. I saw this condition per¬ plexed him which made me the more pe¬ remptory and at length he promised faith¬ fully to obey me. I muft shew him a few little attentions by way of encouragement till my revenge is complete : mean time between you and me I have made an abso¬ lute conquest of the sentimental Gardner which will be a indeed !We
We expect company to dinner therefore I shall not fend off my letter till to-morrow. Adieu ; I am going to dress for conquest; I shall soon leave off odious black though it doubtless sets off the complexion.I entered the drawing-room before din¬ ner perfectly satisfied with my own figure. I was presented to the company—two gen¬ tlemen and a lady; Sir William Allen a gen¬ teel decent looking man ; Mr. Hardman a strange meagre-looking shambling old fellow with spectacles on his nose through which his sharp eyes more than half funk m his hand gazed frightfully on every ob¬ ject near him ; a pair of drum-stick legs covered with worsted stockings black vel¬ vet small clothes; that is they had been black with a large darn upon one knee ; a red cloth waistcoat* with pockets half a yard long; an old grey coat with large white buttons completed the dress of this strange figure.From
From him I turned my eyes to examine the lady who appeared to be about sixty. She was short and fat with 9 face like a full moon ; her hair drawn up tight over a cushion a little drefs-cap with long lap¬ pets her ears quite naked and red as fire; a very small lace handkerchief over an im¬ mense neck with a black lace one twitted in the middle ; a hoop over which was a thick rose-colour silk lack with silver flow¬ ers ; two flounces to the petticoat an a- mazing long stomacher ruffle-cuffs and deep point-ruffles underneath; green and silver shoes completed her dress. This lady was introduced as Miss Babbington.I seated myself by aunt Nell who really looked a respectable spinster from the con¬ trast." For heaven’s fake I (whispered I) who and what are these oddities ?"" Hush ! (said she) I will inform you by and by."Juft
Juft then the door was flung open and a Wild-looking fellow in green his hair strange¬ ly deranged half-boots on and a whip in his hand half-bowing to the company run up to the Earl—" Upon my foul I beg your lordship’s pardon; I have been de¬ tained till this moment by two of the fi¬ nest race-horses in the kingdom. ’Twas impossible to leave the bet undetermined: I have pocketed a cool thousand and was not sensible how the hours flew. Passing your gate I flopped in to make my apology as my dress will not permit me to fit with the ladies and I find I shall be too late for your dinner-hour by the time I get home.”" If you can prevail upon the ladies to admit of your apology (returned the Earl) if they will pardon you and allow for your deshabille I think you had better eat your mutton here than return home.”" Aye do Scamper (cried Lord Gay¬ wit ringing the bell;) let my servant throw Wlittle powder into your hair and as you have
have no spurs let the dull be taken off your boots and the ladies will pardon you 1 know.“ Upon my foul they are infinitely good to me (bowing round though not a creature spoke! and I will attend you in five minutes.”He withdrew and I again applied to aunt Nell for information." He is little better than a brute (whis¬ pered (he.) The family is ancient but his grandfather married his cook : (he after¬ wards took a fancy to the groom so it was a strangeheterogeneous breed. He retains the family-pride and is vain of his person ; but resembling grandmamma and her favourite he is a great epicure and has a violent pas¬ sion for horses. It is an undecided point which of the two he prefers — a good din¬ ner or a fine horse. Next to them is to be admired by the ladies.”" I fancy (said I) he receives but little gratification from the latter”" Indeed
" Indeed (replied she'’”' you are mistaken. He is a lord and has a very fine estate: these are allurements few can withstand.^ Hundreds will flatter cringe and lie to have the honour of a companionship with a nobleman ; and every vain and ambitious female for miles round is spreading her snares to entrap him. One or two have actually become huntresses and leap over hedge and ditch with him. Mijs Babbing- ton (added she smiling and speaking lower)- has been dying for him these three years.— Such forwardness and indecorum is quite shocking.”Gay wit who was advancing to us caught her last words : " Upon my honour I am of the same opinion—to whisper in compa¬ ny is quite indecorous ; and I begin to sus¬ pect my prudent aunt is telling all her love storic: to my wife ; but take care madam it is dangerous making a confidante of a marnss woman : I shall certainly hear of all your little amours”She.
She was about to reply with fore asperity I believe when a summons to do ner and Lord Scamper interrupted the conversation. At table I was the goddels t > whom all paid homage : the men with admiration the dear ladies by their envious glances ac¬ knowledged my superiority and I dare fay wished me fifty miles off;—for my part I was so amused with observing Mr. Hard¬ man and Lord Scamper that I really forgot my own consequence while I was at flic table.You would haw supposed they had laid a bet who should cat most ; the only diffe¬ rence was that Hardman eat voraciously of every thing and the other confined him¬ self to the choicest dishes. The former I think laid in a flock for a month and the other must hunt or race for three days to come to obtain a fresh appetite.When we retired from dinner we strolled into the shrubbery. I drew aunt Nell aside.“" Indeed (replied she; you are mistaken. He is a lord and has a very fine estate: these are allurements few can withstand.— Hundreds will flatter cringe and lie to have the honour of a companionship with a nobleman ; and every vain and ambitious female for miles round is spreading her snares to entrap him. One or two have actually become huntresses and leap over hedge and ditch with him. Mijs Babbing- ton (added she smiling and speaking lower)- has been dying for him these three years.— Such forwardness and indecorum is quite shocking.”Gaywit who was advancing to us caught her last words : " Upon my honour I am of the fame opinion—to whisper in compa¬ ny is quite indecorous ; and I begin to sus¬ pect my prudent aunt is telling all her love storie? to my wife; but take care madam it is dangerous making a confidante of a man■>•'’'L l woman : I shall certainly hear of all your little amours.”She.
She was about to reply with sone asperity I believe when a summons tu di; ner and Lord Scamper interrupted the conversation. At table I was the goddess t > whom all paid homage : the men with admiration the dear ladies by their envious glances ac¬ knowledged my superiority and I dare fay wished me fifty miles off;—for my part I was so amused with observing Mr. Hard¬ man and Lord Scamper that I really forgot my own consequence while I was at fire table.You would have- supposed they had laid a bet who should cat most ; the only diffe¬ rence was that Hardman eat voraciously of every thing and the other confined him¬ self to the choicest dishes. The former I think laid in a stock for a month and the other must hunt or race for three days to come to obtain a fresh appetite.When we retired from dinner we strolled into the shrubbery. I drew aunt Nell aside.“" Tell me I beseech you who is that mean horrid-looking voracious animal and what is Miss Babbington ?”“ How curious you are ? (answered she.) Mr. Hardman has an immense fortune part of which descended to him from his father and the reft acquired by the meanest parsimony. He lives in an old decayed building moated round like a caftle. The moat was dug to fortify him againft thieves: hk doors are of an impenetrable thickness the windows have bars and grates the walls high and strong : he keeps fire-arms char¬ ged in every room; one servant only resides with him who like Scrub has every occu¬ pation. It is said he keeps great sums in his house in some secret place which he lends out at exorbitant interest. His riches are the passport into every gentleman’s house in the neighbourhood as there are few who are not sometimes obliged to him. By this means he indulges in gluttony at the expence of others and starves himself at home ; he has run up a hovel outside the moat i here he turns out his old woman5 when
when he goes out fearing to trust any thing but a fierce buli-dog. As he is really de¬ scended from a respectable family that cir- cumstance and the convenience of his mo¬ ney engage attention even from those who deipiie him. He always goes off the mo¬ ment he can rife from table tor his mind is on the rack left any body (which is next to an impossibility) thould get into his house. His nights are spent in watchful¬ ness his days in fear and anxiety. Nobo¬ dy invites him yet no one refuses him ad¬ mittance and every person knows he never ventures to leave his treasures but when hunger and gluttony urge him to seek fora good meal.-Such is Mr Hardman.”“A moftdeteftable character! (I exclaim¬ ed) but his avarice is his punissiment. Every line in his face pourtrays the misery of his mind : one cannot with him a greater evil except the loss of his money.—But Miss- Babbington my dear madam-”“ Is the daughter of a baronet and was;i1Il!‘'1 once thought an agreeable woman. She took
took it into her head to be-a beauty and as the had a large fortune and constantly attended the court and all fashionable cir¬ cles the met with people enough ready to countenance her vanity. With this idea flie carried her expectations to such an ex¬ travagant height that gentlemen were de¬ terred from making any addresses by the haughty insolence of her behaviour and the stiff grandeur of her dress which no change of fashion has induced her to alter as the loudly exclaims at the folly of women of birth anif fortune levelling themselves with ■ their waiting maids and mechanics by their simplicity of dress. In this style of sullen grandeur the lived in the gay world till the became the ridicule of both sexes and it was with much reluctance that the found herself obliged to renounce the town or alter her style of dress living and man¬ ners to avoid being pointed at as an ob¬ ject of derision." While the was balancing at this pain¬ ful alternative an event took place whichgave2
(rave her a thorough disgust to "” A very- pretty young woman lived with her as a humble friend who though genteelly born and educated was unhappily without pa¬ rents or fortune. This young creature at¬ tracted the notice of an earl’s eldest son which at length occasioned a journey to Scotland. Her astonishment and rage was inexpressible that a girl so simple in her dress and manners should have obtained a rank in life for which she had vainly sighed io many years — was a mortification the could not support; and resolved never to witness the of this friend who mult have precedence of her in public. She few from an ill-judging and degenerate we rid to be the empress of a village. She purchased a fine Gothic mansion in this neighbourhood where the lives in state preserving in her house furniture dress and manners the customs of half a century back and is the wonder and admiration of vol. i. H all
all the rustics round the countryfor everyperson is secondary to Miss Babbington.”I had scarcely thanked Dame Eleanor for her communications before we wei joined by the gentlemen and the other ladie I saw Lady Pen arranging herself by th fide of Sir James: I drew near to them." My dear Lady Pen rickard (said I lou< enough to attract the attention of the com pany) do you recollect a conversation tha passed in a shrubbery lately between ; young man of fashion and a middle-age 1 lady : I think you heard of it. — Whai would you say now if I were to tell yot that I have had a conversation with thsfame gentleman in the course of which he ridiculed the folly of that vain woman com¬ plaining he was bored to death by her trou¬ blesome fondness his heart having been long devoted to another.—Is he not a de¬ ceitful wretch ?"" Upon my word (said she stammering in the utmost confusion) I know not what you
you allude to nor whom you are talking of.”" Indeed! then you did not hear the conversation and I am mistaken ; but you. Sir James I am certain heard the gentle¬ man ridicule the lady in the molt pointed terms imaginable :—deny it if you can."“ I never contradict a lady madam" answered he not much less confused than poor Pen who had fallen a little back but I stuck close to her.“ Indeed Sir James you will allow he was too Jtvere upon the poor lady who though she is not very young nor very hand¬ some yet not knowing the gentleman’s strong attachment to a more desirable ob¬ ject may be pardoned for her endeavours to obtain so valuable a prize. I really for¬ give and pity her disappointment."The last word was scarcely uttered^ '1Iil|—fs’'be¬ fore Lady Pen was seized with a violent hysteric the suddenness of which with the wonder and curiosity I had excited putHz all
all the company into an uproar. She was conveyed to the very alcove where I had made the discovery. Sir Roger was like a mad man : Sir James whispered me " love¬ ly merciless tyrant!" For my part having had my revenge I was very assiduous about the lady and appeared equally surprised with the reft at the sudden disorder.Burnt feathers hartshorn water and a goodybaking which aunt Nell ( I thank her) advised at length restored the crest-fallen lady to her senses. As every one crowded round herVvXx'' and seemed concerned at her illness she guested I had not been more explicit. Sir James was attentive to Lady Almeria whose weak nerves were deranged by this scene : (she is astonishingly altered.) Mr. Grantham was administring drops to his delicate wife; Maria was hanging on the arm of her admired Gardner; the reft and myself were employed in restoring the lady to her senses. She thanked us in a low tremulous voice accounted for her illness
illness by a sudden chill from eating too much fruit and was assisted into the house by Lord Gaywit and Lord Scamper Sir Roger following greatly agitated.We soon returned to the drawing-room but the poor lady had retired and sent an apology to the company for not joining them.I know my dear Mary will lecture me for this affair but revenge is sweet and over a-no not a rival an im¬ pertinent woman is the most transporting thing in life.The moment we were seated all requested me for an explanation of the conversation I had alluded to. I begged to be excu¬ sed ; " 1 had accidentally been a witness to it between Sir James and his friend and thought.Lady Penrickard had been of the party; but as 1 was mistaken it would be extremely ungenerous to make public what was intended perhaps for confidentialH 3 information.
information. Sir James was the only person to be applied to."He was horridly out of countenance." I beg leave to imitate your ladyship’s discretion and remain silent."" What the devil is all this about ? (cried Giywit he and Lord Scamper having only joined us as the lady was taken ill;) what secret can there be between my wife and Sir James improper for us to know ?"" Indeed I can’t tell (replied aunt Nell drawing up her scraggy neck with an in¬ verted eye at me.) In my days married women had no secrets with young gentle¬ men or private conversations."I think Gaywit coloured though he affected to laugh in which I joined very awkwardly I believe ; for the unexpected answer of the formal old maid a little dis¬ concerted me. She had better let me alone: I was half inclined to be her friend; let her beware of calling forth my talent of ri¬ dicule $t her expence.I. per-
I perceived in the course of the even¬ ing that Sir William Allen was an admirer of Lady Almeria and that the Earl ap¬ proved of his predilection. He appears to be a polite sensible man but too grave for Lady Almeria though she A not what Jhe has been. That wicked Sir James has made strange commotions among us and the de¬ spairing sentimental Gardner too what shall I do with him ?I was talking of you the other morning to Maria who follows me about like my shadow whether from love or jealousy is a questionable point. She was lamenting that she had no mother or filter to be a friend or monitor at a period of life when both were necessary. I told her I had a sifter not twenty who was wisdom per¬ sonified a model of prudence and patience to the last of which I was greatly indebted and it were my own fault if I were not advantaged by the former. " What fayH 4  you.
rzr WOMBAT A$ THEY ARE.you Maria shall I claim the benefit of my sister’s advice for you ?"" Ah ! (said she) I should indeed be both honoured and gratified by such a con¬ descension from Miss Boyle. Young as I am I have a foul capable of friendship and a docility of disposition that would with transport receive the instructions of an amiable and disinterested friend.”" You talk in heroics Maria. In these days distinterested persons are scarcely to be found : you know nothing of the world child.”" Indeed I do not (answered she in¬ terrupting me.) Mr. Gardner teils me I have only book-knowledge which in gene¬ ral describes things as they cught to be not as what they are; and that I may form very erroneous opinions from the style Of reading I have been accustomed to.”" And does Mr. Gardner tell you so ?” Perhaps he may like to be himself your in¬ structor and initiate you into a knowledge of the world.”I believe
“ ’ I believe I looked very archly for the poor girl blushed scarlet deep.“ No (said she with a pensive look;) Mr. Gardner’s superiority of understand¬ ing cannot condescend to throw away his time so unprofitably.”We were interrupted by the entrance of Gaywit and she withdrew : but I really pity her. The mode of education Ihe has re¬ ceived the romantic ideas she has imbibed her total ignorance of men and manners the softness of her disposition and the ex¬ ample of her Kep-mother may altogether prove fatal to her peace. She would be an excellent pupil for you and it would be a meritorious aK to preserve an amiable motherless girl whose simplicity and sensi¬ bility may prove her ruin.Let my concern and charity for the ne¬ glected Maria win me your good opinion my good sifter. A constitutional gaiety of heart vanity and a love of power with the dear delight os exciting admiration andII : envy.
envy may lead me into little indiscretions; (you fee I do not spare myself) but pride self-love and a sprinkling of discretion shall extricate me all in good time never fear.This enormous packet is a striking proof that all my hours are not devoted to folly and coquetry and as opportunities offer I shall continue to write. Gaywit joins me in duty and love. Let me soon hear of your hair-breadth escapes and a thousand pretty adventures.Your affectionateC. M. GATWIH.LETTER
WOMEN AS THEY ARE.INLETTER XVII.MISS BOYLE TO LADY GAY WIT.XTOUR first letter my dear sister was put into my hand as I was getting into the carriage to leave York. Our dear fa¬ ther observing the address from. Stanton- Place laid" Mary I hope all is well there.” It was a tender hope which I was eager to realize. Pardon me if I were suspicious that the general tenor of the letter might: not prove very pleasing to my father I therefore glanced my eye here and there and looking at the conclusion allured him every person was in good health and:H 6 my
my sister in charming spirits. He was too kind too considerate to aik any questions and I had seen enough to prevent me from going through the contents at that time I put the letter into my pocket.—“ This will amuse me in the evening : I will enjoy the prospects now.”My dear father had purposely gone through York that I might fee the city which I think has an air of gloomy gran¬ deur from the silence that pervades it; at some seasons the aflizes and races I am told the city is crowded with fashionable people but now the streets are dull and de¬ serted.Alas! my sister fain would I trifle and write of indifferent matters that I may not frighten you by my gravity from continuing your correspondence and confidence; but my mind is too deeply distressed to enter upon descriptive subjects; nor since the pe¬ rusal of your letter have I been capable of receiving pleasure from any pasting objects or
or enjoying as I expected some of the most romantic scenes in nature. Every moment was an age until we arrived at Berwick and with eager haste I dispatched a servant to the post-office. Your second letter had. that day arrived: I saw my earnestness attracted my father’s notice.“ How greatly does absence endear our friends ? (said I.) Till now I never knew the value of letters.”" I am pleased with Caroliner*Ttfs''s punctua¬ lity (returned my father.) A separation from.a friend and sifter and the frivolity she will meet with in the gay world will 1 hope teach her to value the affection and sincerity of her own connexions.”I retired as soon as possible to examine tire packet in the weak expectation that the second letter would counteract the poison of the first. Well may I call it poison when it has disordered both my mind and body.0 Caroline !
O Caroline ! what intelligence have you communicated —how have you degraded your own character ? What is Sir James Uicho'1Iil’”*'.ls to Lady Gaywit ? — How do his attentions or amours concern her ? Is (he not married to the man of her choice ?— Is she not elevated to a rank in life that ought to hold out an example of discretion and imitation to others ?—Will a playful gaiety of heart be accepted as an apology for errors and indiscretions that violate de¬ corum lessen her own consequence and is degrading to her husband ? My dear fitter stop where you are j undeceive yourself;— it is not admiration you excite; it is a sen¬ timent a presumptuous hope that ought to humble you in your own eyes as it must lower you in the esteem of others. How can you who fee the improper and ridi¬ culous conduct of Lady Penrickard in its. true light be blind to the glaring impro¬ priety of your actions ?. Does the dif¬ ference of a very few years (for her lady¬ ship is still a young woman) sanction follies
in one which are disgusting in another ?— surely not. Your reason cannot be so hood¬ winked as to believe it; and for my part I think the levity of the younger woman much more unpardonable.But little acquainted with the world mar¬ ried beyond her hopes introduced into a new family at an age when modesty and delicacy ought to be the guardians of every word and action her manners should inspire re¬ spect and esteemher conduct should be irreproachable or Hie will give juft cause for conclusions that ought to make her die with shame and confusion : she will be sup¬ posed to have a natural depravity of heart that at so early a period of life can adopt the coquetry and follies too prevalent in fashionable women from a long acquain¬ tance with the town whom dissipation and pernicious examples have gradually seduced from the paths of discretion. A young woman of eighteen to leap over every bar¬ rier of female modesty at once is a creature. so
so contemptible that (he is even beneath pity.Call me not precise my dear filler. Your wit and good-humour I admire when tempered with a little judgment: I am not grave in the disagreeable sense of the word for I love cheerful people and animated par¬ ties. I dt all like to hear that my filler in the gay world is admired so that the admi¬ ration Hops not *at her face but that her manners have their full share in the applause and that esteem and respect: are attached to the approbation her beauty may inspire.— Check then the playfulness of your temper dear Caroline ; consider what you owe to your lord yourself and your family. You have in your own connexions seen the ill- consequences of indulging vanity and other frivolous attachments in the characters you have before you; you can distinguish folly and improprieties: give yourself but time for reflection and my sister will have no cause to fear " an averted eye” an " oblique sneer”
sneer”" blush” of Lord Gaywit at a supposed indiscretion in his wife.I thank you for the characters you have drawn of your guests. The avaricious man is truly an unhappy being; his days and nights are pasted in wretchedness and must conclude in misery and sorrow. Your cl- dcily miss in her solitary grandeur may find some compensation for lost beauty and consequence and hold out a lesson to other females to beware of rating their personal charms end attainments too highly when new beauties daily spring up to lessen their attractions and when novelty is of itself a sufficient charm in the eyes of most men to draw their attentions. Lord Scamper is too insignificant to invite observation—a common character. Sir William Allen I am inclined to think favourably of and wish he may succeed with Lady Almeria.Tell Miss Penrickard that if a corre¬ spondence with a person unknown who has been partially represented to her whose only boast
boast is truth and sincerity can afford her the least satisfaction I shall feel myself most favoured by the indulgence.-1 have had no hair-breadth escapes or adventures no lovers to pursue no valiant knights to guard me; but have been suffered to pass very quietly through the country “ unknow¬ ing and unknown.” We purpose going to: Glasgow and if we meet with a pleasant cottage in its vicinity to six there for some time. To leave our country and connexions to reside with strangers on a circumscribed in¬ come oppressed with the rememberance of many sad events by most persons may be thought a wild and an absurd scheme ; but those that wonder or censure know not our motives : my father wishes to fly from every scene that may remind him of lost happiness. Parental attention is not now absolutely necessary for Frederic ; and though few men have less pride or can more easily resign personal gratifications yet human nature is the fame in every breast. He can submit to retrench every superfluityto
to live within the narrow bounds of his li¬ mited income without regret when free from the observation of his former acquain¬ tance ; but he could not support ill-natured reflections nor the contemptuous flights o£ the illiberal world nor appear in a situation degrading to Lord and Lady Gaywit. And for myself I am neither without feeling nor pride; the first is gratified in being the. companion the toother of my father'd sor¬ rows ; and the Liter is preserved from mor¬ tification by withdrawing from the narrow- minded and ill-judging multitude whose venal praises are attached only to the pros¬ perous and happy. In the retirement we seek we shall appear as we are possessed of a very moderate income and resolved to live within it. We have enough for the comforts of life but nothing for its super¬ fluities : we shall attract no notice—we shall seek no acquaintance; and I thank heaven that I have resources within myself that will enable me to pass the hours of soli¬ tude both pleasantly and profitably. I (hall acquire wisdom patience and fortitude.From
From this account my dear sifter will fee that it is impossible I should be an enter¬ taining correspondent. On the article of amusement I must be greatly your debtor; on the side of affection and sisterly love I will not yield the superiority. To that ac¬ counts my dear Caroline place the contents of this letter : read it not lightly but let it co-operate with your own reason to in¬ fluence your conduct in the pursuits of honour happiness and real admiration.— Our father fends his blessing and affectionate remembrances to yourself and Lord Gaywit. Believe me everYour true friend and sifterMARY BOYLE.LETTER
LETTER XVIII.MISS BOYLE TO MRS. ROWE.Dear and revered FriendHOW kind how consoling was your last letter! Believe me it had the effects the beloved writer designed. It in¬ spired exultation and the delightful con¬ sciousness of self-approbation confirmed by the belt of women. Can my happiness ad¬ mit of any addition now that my father’s health and spirits seem to be greatly re¬ stored ?—Alas! yes. In the words of an elegant writer I feel " that in the midst of happiness the sighing heart will remind us
us of its imperfection?’ One corroding care still rankles in my bosom and there must rankle ; for unless circumstances change not even to you. can I communicate the cause. I have do..e wrong to mention it; I entreat you to obliterate the incau¬ tious folly from your memory.-1 sty to other subjects.Three days since we arrived at Glasgow. Yesterday we rambled through the city and were quite charmed with irs situation its buildings and cleanliness. Considering we are strangers without servants or equipage to give consequence we have met with much civility and were accommodated the first night of our arrival with very decent apartments in a private house. As I men¬ tioned my intention of writing to you this morning my kind father is gone alone round the environs of the city on horse¬ back to look out for a habitation that xp»y suit the two emigrants.The4
WOMEN AS THEY ARE.l6yThe situation of Glasgow is uncommonly beautiful : it is built on a gentle declivi¬ ty gradually Hoping towards the river which affords a prospect of large ships that continually changing proves the extensive commerce carried on in this busy city.— The new houses are large regular and elegant four and five stories high the best of them supported by arcades which have a very magnificent appearance.But why should I attempt to describe a city already pourtrayed by abler pens than mine ? You have before now read every thing that can be said on the subject I shall content myself therefore with assuring you that description has not outstepped the bounds of truth and that I prefer Glasgow to Edinburgh though that is certainly in the line of improvement and may from the plans already begun to be put into exe¬ cution in a few years become a beautiful city. We rested only two days in it and the whole of our time was so taken up with gunning about that I had not a single hour
hour to devote to my favourite employment of writing ; and on the road T found myself too much fatigued either to receive or give pleasure by my pen.One circumstance let me not forget to acquaint you with knowing that the in¬ terest you take in our affairs will render it acceptable. Before my father quitted Hert¬ fordshire Mr. Abbot his solicitor told him of an excellent opportunity to lay out three thousand pounds to much advantage. Happy in the prospect: of adding to the income of my beloved father I readily joined in empowering Mr. Abbot who is a very worthy character to transfer that sum from the bank for the beneficial pur¬ pose he mentioned. The interest will be upwards of sixty pounds a year difference in our favour which is a considerable ob¬ ject to us at present; and I confess to you my dear Mrs. Rowe that although I sigh not for grandeur nor am ambitious of riches yet neither am I so abstracted as not to
WOMEN AS THEY ARE. 169 to be desirous of a competence that may af¬ ford us a few indulgcncies preserve us from contempt and leave a little for the wants of others more pressing than our own.Apropos to the latter let me tell you that before we began our journey we re¬ ceived a moss affectionate letter from Mr. Cranfield who has consented to accompany his brother into Italy for the reftoration of his health which the former is appre¬ hensive is on the decline. He again repeats every kind offer and fays he has left an order with his banker to honour whatever bills my father may draw on him. Most uncommon generosity and confidence surely! who could abuse it ?—Not Mr. Boyle I am persuaded; and thank heaven we shall have no temptation. The deposit placed in my hands for the. relief of the unfortunate is still untouched. When we become sta¬ tionary there is little doubt but that in this world of affliction I shall meet with many who have claims to it..vol. i. I You
tyd Women as they are.You are surprised I omitted to mention tily fitter in the laft letter I sent. I am Ashamed o( the neglect;: the is well and happy at Stanton-Place Hill—a great fa¬ vourite with the Earl a circumftance that givps^mepiuch pleasure as the marriage at first was rattier acceded /s than exactly cor¬ respondent to his wishes. She writes to me very punctually.You think that (he mutt be unhappy in the reflection that “ so much having been done for her has occasioned the embarrass¬ ments and consequent retirement of her fa* ther and fitter.” I cannot answer for her feelings but we are particularly cautious net to hurt them by the slightest word that may be translated into a reflection on her. It would be cruel to disturb her happiness and we are perfectly content.My fattier is just returned and I must conclude. Address your letters to me at Mr. Macniel’s Banker in Glasgow on whom my father has letters of credit and the
women As they are. iyr the only one here that knows any thing of us.Adieu dear Mrs. Rowe ; my bett willies are everYour’sMARY BOYLE.LETTER XIX.LADY OAYWIT TO MIS"'■•-¬‘ 'S BOYLE.MY first letter dear Mary has by this time reached your hands and me¬ thinks I fee my pretty sifter shaking her wife head at the giddy Caroline. What then will you fay to the second which meets you at Berwick? I expect: a volume of advice and a string of proverbs: like SanchoI r Panza
Panza you will retail the wisdom of nations against me and raise a holt of terrible prognostics for future punishment.With all the consequences before my eyes I cannot refill writing to you and placing weapons in your hands againft my¬ self. You mull at leaft allow I have more frankness and generosity than half my sex unless you suppose the want of a confidante and an eager delire of being communicative urge me to this desperate deed : but I truft my dear Mary will lean to the favourable side of the question and in that confidence I shall pursue the narrative of my proceed¬ ings which really begin to be interesting.1 concluded my halt letter with telling you that I had sent poor Lady Pen to her dres¬ sing-room from whence she would not emerge nor was again visible for the even¬ ing. I saw Mils Babbington was dying with curiosity; she condescended to be very gracious to me and hoped " we should be good neighbours the diftance being only seven
seven miles an hour’s ride which in a morning would be of infinite service to my health.” Ibowedto her compliment and pro¬ mised to call on her very soon. Lord Scamper then advanced telling me he had the prettiest hunting-seat in the kingdom and the finest horses in the world; he hoped to have the honour of Hi owing both to me.“ Your lordihip should marry (said the Earl) then you might expect: the ladies would visit you.”“ The favour would be purchased too dearly (replied he with a loud laugh) if at the expence of my liberty. No no my lord I like the dear creatures extremely well but curse me if ever I sacrifice Har¬ lequin White Legs and Cleopatra to any woman in the kingdom.”“ Fye Scamper (cried Gaywit) what a declaration before the ladies!— Upon my word you grow quite savage.”" No ! (exclaimed he laughing still loud¬ er) it is because I do not choose to be s /wage that I disclaim matrimony.”I 3 - '" ' ““ A truce if you please my lord to such conversation (said aunt Nell bri¬ dling) which neither (hews yo^r wit nor good-breeding.”" His lordship only means to shew his pleasantry (added Mijs Babbington with a gracious smile) he is never deficient in po¬ liteness.”" Upon my foul (cried he with a care¬ less bow) I am indebted for your good opinion madam ; but I fear as you know me better I shall prove less disserving of it”This was said rather pointedly and made the elderly Mils blush for it seems he is no stranger to the snares foe has laid to entrap him but hitherto his paffion for " Harle¬ quin” and his companions have preserved him from falling into her net.Sir William Allen had at table engaged the family-party to dine with him at Holwell- Mount next Friday. All except the Earl (who is not well enough to venture out) and
and Lady Almeria accepted the invitation. Her ladyship " could not be wanting in her attendance on her father particularly as he would be deprived of his agreeable friends.” I give her all due credit for her attachment to the Earl but the real ob- jection was too obvious from the coolness so visible in her behaviour to Sir William and I am sure he understood it but too well.After our guests were departed wishing to pay court a little to dame Eleanor I said to her apart " I am sorry to observe Lady Almeria does not like Sir William."" So am I (retorted she in a quick tone;) there is a gentleman in this house made of too much consequence. Before his arrival Almeria was gay and rather top lively. Her indifference to Sir William ap¬ peared to spring from a spirit of coquetry more than from any serious disinclination ; but since the arrival of Sir James Nicholls (added fire fixing her sharp grey eyes upopI 4 my
my face) there is a marked alteration in her person and disposition.”" Of that / am not a judge as the al¬ teration must have taken place before my arrival.”" Not entirely (replied (he;) but before you came to Stanton-Place this Sir James paid much greater attention than I wished for to the poor girl who I fear gave him credit for more honour and sincerity than he p^effes. It is a horrid thing that the world is grown so depraved young girls thinking of lovers when they had better be in their nursery frorti which in my days they never came but under a parent’s wing till a suitable match was chosen for them or they were arrived at years of discretion.— The folly of the present. day in throwing children into the world when scarcely from their leading firings makes so many forward ridiculous misses and so many imprudent wives who outrage decency by their flir¬ tations with the men ; and whether they are indulgent mistresses or " merciless tyrants”
tyrantsact with the greatest improprie¬ ty.”To my infinite relief we were interrupt¬ ed for the old girl had given me a ch oak - pear. It is plain she heard the exclamation of Sir James to me in the shrubbery and was not pleased there should be a secret be¬ tween us (lie could not comprehend.The next morning I accompanied Lady Almeria to Lady Pen’s dressing-room. W? found her just ready to make her appear¬ ance perfectly recovered both in health and spirits : there was a composure in the latter and a civility in her address to me that was astonishing ;—she must be a con¬ summate hypocrite.She accompanied us to Mrs. Grantham this delicate Jatr one was still extremely discomposed and mentioned her intention of going to Bath very shortly.—Poor Lady Dainty !—a strange whim her’s to many an old man for his money j and instead ofI 5 enjoying
enjoying hi? fortune with spirit spends her days in fruitless endeavours to attract notice by extreme delicacy and weak nerves. Here site is unfortunately overlooked but in the fashionable resort of invalids she may be successful.All this day passed in great harmony; music and cards were our amusements for the day proved too wet for riding or walk¬ ing. Jn the evening Sir James and myself were by accident cut out and left to en¬ tertain each other. I rallied him upon the circurhftances of the preceding day and he thought proper to make a merit of obliging me at the expence of Lady Pen whose eyes were continually turned towards us; and to mortify her I affected to whisper and gave myself a thousand consequential airs.Her inattention to her cards and her part¬ ner5' 's reproaches drew universal observation and following the direction of her eyes we attracted general notice. On this I arose and.
and walking to one of the tables leaned over the back of Lord Gaywit’s chair who had juft loft a game." You had shocking cards my lord; you have not ftaked high I hope.’*" I fear / have (answered he looking expreflively at me) and that I am playing a losing game."“ Fie my lord ! (exclaimed Mrs. Gran¬ tham who was his partner) you are not serious surely : the trifle we play for cannot be deemed a high ftake or excite hopes or fears at the event.”" True madam (replied he ;) but when we are interested for the honour of a victory the trifle becomes of some consequence."" Nonsense! (cried (he.) If you are so mighty tenacious of conquest I shall re¬ gret that I am your partner left I should be blamed for the consequences."“ Indeed madam not the smallest blame will be attached to you ; it refts wholly with myself for I begin to think I play my . cards very ill."I 6The
The cards being dealt no more was said and I removed to another station. The foregoing dialogue was perfectly understood by me and certainly the observation of aunt Nell has made the foolish fellow jea¬ lous. At supper chance placed Mr. Gard¬ ner next to me and I began to play off a few airs and graces upon him. He had the insolence to whisper me “ It won’t do Lady Gaywit ; the covering is too flimsy.’* I gave him such a look of contempt as silenced him for the evening which pasted altogether in a kind of snap-dragon way talking at each othert When we retired Lord Gay wit took it in his head to be very grave and as I never like to break in upon people’s hu¬ mours I left him to indulge his taciturnity as long as he pleased. This morning he was all tenderness and proposed to take an airing with me. / like a condescending wife complied : his sister Maria and Mr. Gardner accompanied us. To the latter Iwore
wore an air of scornful civility and my at¬ tentions being divided between Gay wit and Almeria the love-stricken Maria had him all to herself.But the mortifying circumstance was that Sir James was left at home with that odious Lady Pen and at dinner the looked so pleased so happy and so ugly that I could have killed her with my eyes had they the power so often ascribed to them.— I have now left the whole party to scribble thus far ; but to fry truth am so horridly out of humour that I must take a little ramble in the garden to recover my serenity before I can make my appearance in the drawing-room to any advantage.Not aline could I write last night; but without preface hasten now to the events of the evening. I broke from my pen and sauntered into the garden had a transient view of aunt Nell and Almeria turning.into a little summer-house; curiosity carried me round that way and hearing my name mentioned.
rHx wqmen as they are.mentioned must excuse my lingering near it. The following conversation reached my ears" Indeed madam (said Almeria) I have no aversion to Sir William but I feel no pre¬ ference for him ; neither have I any incli¬ nation to be bound for life when I have but just began my career and can so little answer for my sentiments."« To be sure (answered the formal maiden) you are young enough yet to fix for life ; and in my time girls like you would have been still in the nursery ; (Al¬ meria is nineteen observe;) but this age is so forward and so depraved that as you are thrust into the world the sooner you are united to a worthy man the better."" It cannot be to Sir William Allen (laid/Zz<'?' Almeria ;) and I wish madam you would tell my father that I esteem him as a friend but I never can love him."“ And who do you love better ? Ah 1 niece niece that blush betrays you; that artful
artful designing Sir James Nicholls has sto¬ len into your heart; you are no longer what you were. Once too gay and frivolous now your spirits and vivacity are fled !— that insiduous man has undermined your peace and will shipwreck your happiness unless prudence and pride come to your rescue.”m I hope (answered Almeria in a spirit¬ ed tone) I have sufficient of both to guard my peace from the arts of any man and you must observe there is very little com¬ munication between me and the gentleman you mention.”" Yes; and I observe also that his at- tentions elsewhere render yqu thus spiritless and drooping : it is in vain to deny it.—But he is a worthless character to pursue mar¬ ried women. I declare the behaviour of Lady Penrickard is quite shocking and though you admired just now the playful vivacity of Lady Gaywit I must tell you that / do not think quite so well of her.— I was quite shocked yesterday at things I observed.
observed. In short child Sir James is I am sure a wicked dangerous man and your brother had better take his wife from hence if the other does not. shorten his visit. He that seeks to gain the attention of married women mutt be worthless and those indiscreet creatures who flirt with him injure their husbands and will soon become contemptible. If I fee much more I (hall speak very plain to your sifter whether she likes it or not: but be assured that Sir James is a male coquet whose vanity is gratified by gaining the affections of women and then neglecting them.”“ Dear aunt (cried Almeria) you judge too severely but Sir James is nothing to me.• " So much the better if you speak truth; Open your eyes then to the merits of Sir William and you will soon judge more fa¬ vourably of him and be more inclined to oblige your father."" To please my dear father is the firft wish of my heart but I fear in this instanceit
it would be the sacrifice of my happiness for ever if I complied with his withes'•■1Iil’'.”" Well well'■1Iil|—‘’' take time to consider child and weigh the merits of both men fairly.”I walked on and entered the drawing¬ room a few minutes before them where I found Sir James and Lady Pen at Picquet the others at Whist. Lord Gaywit looked at me with no very gracious aspect. The Earl who was unemployed cried out “ My dear daughter where* have you secluded yourself from us so long ?”“ In my dressing-room writing to my sister my lord.”“ Aye I am told that sister of your’s is a most agreeable sensible young woman.”"”“ /with so too” said Lord Gaywit ab¬ ruptly." Nay my lord that is not quite so po¬ lite on your side : in your eyes I ought to be
be the most lovely best and discreetcst of my sex.”" You have the power to render my sen¬ timents exaAly conformable to your wishes” said he with an expressive look which I did not choose to comprehend ; and there¬ fore tapping him on the shoulder with an assumed smile " Thank ye my lord; then be assured those sentiments shall al¬ ways be in my favour ?”The entrance of dame Nell (for as ihe intends to be a spy upon me I will no longer call her eu^) with Almeria changed the conversation and soon after broke up the card-parties. After supper I was called upon to ting; I positively refused unless Lady Pen would set the example; (by the bye Ihe screams like an owl.) Every one joined in the entreaty ; Sir James particu¬ larly. At length with an affected confusion and timidity Ihe complied and I gave a look at Sir James that almost set him in a fit of laugjstct : an assumed cough and his handkerchief
handkerchief saved the unseasonable emo¬ tion and when she finished he was moil lavish in his praises. I readily obeyed the general call and never fyng better in my life. My eyes I believe spoke my for poor Lady Pen was quite a la mort and visibly displeased at the compliments I re¬ ceived.When we retired Lord Gaywit said a thousand pretty things but concluded with a deep figh " You have metamorphosed a lively rattling fellow into a sober doating husband my dear Caroline. Would to heaven I could fee you equally attached P*f* Wh^t 1 wppld you wish to fee me a poqr tame spiritless thing rupning aftef its dearee playing the fool hopping like the fpnd dove round its mate and become the finding jest of the multitude by re¬ tiring to purling brooks and shady groves there ip soft murmurs lisp our never dying paKoy to the ^dd$» “ All syr Loveor
or the World well""“ No (replied he spiritedly) no ! — I would neither become ridiculous myself nor have my wife a theme for invidious observations; but I would have her supe¬ rior to the frivolity of the world and not ashamed of (hewing in public that prefe¬ rence to the man of hen choice which might give him credit and do honour to herself. Fondness is sometimes ridiculous but a tenderness of manner more than words— a delicacy in her conduct that not a sha¬ dow of doubt may be entertained that her husband occupies the first place in her heart and esteem — should certainly mark the behaviour of an affectionate and prudent wife."" Upon my word (said I interrupting him) a very fine oration upon the duties of a wife and your lordship seems to have undergone a great transformation. . The magic has not yet affected the f all in goodtime
time I suppose. Till then my lord con¬ tent yourself with bearing a little longer my vivacity and indulgence of those spirits once so captivating but which I find you now expect: to be changed for a grave sober hum-drum silence becoming an old mar¬ ried woman. Well I will endeavour to practise the lesson and when in company with my husband look as demure and pre¬ cise as your old aunt and reserve my gaiety for my friends in your absence.”I shall not repeat his answer. We had at last a downright serious quarrel which ended as it ought in my and his acknowledgment of my power beauty goodness and so forth.I am determined to keep it up and not relax in my authority nor abate in my usual spirits or flirtations. Now or never is the time to conquer and establish my reign over such husband-like airs. I see he dotes’on me and in a short time will be¬ come the tame fond animal he wanted to make
make his wife; but I thank heaven lam not made of such weak materials: I can love quite enough without consuming my consequence or losing fight of the ""This morning he was all tenderness and I behaved very prettily. Could you have thought my wife fitter that the lively laugh¬ ing Gaywit would have changed thus sud¬ denly ? I’ll be hanged if that formal fen* timental Gardner has not infected him with some of his antediluvian notions. I have been strangely mistaken in that gentleman; I thought he was humbled into a down¬ right lover but this morning meeting him in the breakfaft-parlour and rallying him upon his gravity which I supposed my "" had occasioned the pu¬ ritanical creature had the assurance to say " his anxiety for the peace of Lord Gay¬ wit threw a gloom over his mind which my ladyship alone had the power to disperse and then bowing abruptly left me to translate his meaning as I pleased.Pretty5
Pretty doings these to have a sentimental friend a spy upon my conduct 1 I like a good-natured fool thought his attentions soft looks and dancing after me like a sha¬ dow were the effect of my attractions : but it seems the " peace of Lord Gaywit” impelled him to watch his wife.-Very well Mr. Officious I shall soon do your business: Stanton-Place shall not boast of me for its inmate much longer ; and when I am in my own house no such friendly observer shall be my guest.Adieu my dear Mary; you fee I have much business on my hands. I hourly ex¬ pect to hear where my next letter may find you : this goes to Berwick. To our father present my best duty and believe me sin¬ cerelyTour’sC. M GAYWIf.LETTER
LETTER XX.MISS BOYLE TO MRS. ROWE.TEN days have passed my beloved friend since I wrote to you in which time I have been a daring adventurer; no¬ thing less I assure you than a voyager.When I closed my last letter my father was juft returned from his excursion and brought with him Mr. Macniel ou "-¬■'’* - banker to whose kindness andhospitality we have many obligations. He spent the evening with us and having all the nation lily of a Scotchman d^fcahted much on the beau¬ ties and antiquity of his country. Among other4
WOMEk As THEY aAe. 193 other things he expatiated largely on the wild grandeur of the scenes in the Me of Arran in the (hire of Bute. My father listened to him with earnest attention and express a with to fee this boasted spot.— Upon which Mr. Macniel offered to ac¬ company him the following day in a little coasting voyage for a few days as his son and partner were perfectly competent to ma¬ nage the business in his absence.My father gratefully accepted the offer and persuaded me also to accede to it. As I knew it was impossible for him to leave me my wish to gratify and oblige a pa¬ rent so dear to me silenced if it did not conquer my foolish objections to the wa¬ ter and without the least hesitation I agreed to be of the party : a Mils Macintire a niece of our friend was promised to be my companion.The next day Mr. Macniel introduced die lady an agreeable pleasant woman vol. i. K about
about four and thirty. A vessel was hired for the purpose and we embarked. I am not sufficiently acquainted with nautical matters to describe our voyage in proper terms. Hills dales villages and bays we palled innumerable. On one fide we saw towers enveloped by woods; on another the ruins of a castle; then scattered villa¬ ges ; then the hills of Cowal beautifully Hoping to the water’s edge varied with woods and corn-lands; and at a distance almost to the uttermost stretch of view we saw the stupendous mountains of Arran rising to the clouds. Nothing could ex¬ ceed the beauty of this voyage; my mind partook of the harmony around me and my "”Our first course was directed to the Me of Bute where we landed and walked up to Mount-Stewart which is a very hand¬ some modern house the situation beautiful in the midst of a wood on a high ground the
the trees lofty and flourishing. After view¬ ing this cultivated spot we proceeded on our voyage landing at several places to ex¬ amine every thing worth notice a descrip¬ tion of which I am not equal to and could afford you but little amusement in the detail.After three days coasting we arrived at Loch-Ranga a fine open bay and landed on the Isle of Arran. The approach to it was sublime and beautiful—a fine bay in front with a desolated cattle on a project¬ ing neck of land; beyond a little fertile plain watered by a stream with a small village; the whole surrounded by moun¬ tains of an immense height.—The scenery was truly romantic.I was extremely desirous of visiting the cattle. It is laid it was once the seat of royalty but now mouldering into ruins. Little remains to gratify curiosity : there is a hall and three or four apartments; andKa at
at the bottom of one of the squares (for the castle consists of two) was a vast cavern which most probably was a dungeon in which unhappy prisoners were let down there to perish according to the barbarous custom of former times. One room had an immense large chimney and being more habitable than the other part seemed by some fragments and shells to serve as an occasional retreat for poor fishermen or such like persons.We walked through a wood of small trees and ascended a hill. We came to a decent cottage; an elderly man and his wife received us with great hospitality. and gave us much better fare and more intel¬ ligent information than we could have ex- pected.We passed two days in rambling round this island and I was quite charmed with the variety of scenes some beautiful others terrific which alternately presented them¬ selves
selves; as you moved from East to Weft.— We met with many monumental ft ones which seemed to be the reliques of Druidifm and our kind host told us several traditional stories of the celebrated Fingal who is said to have hunted here.In short my dear Mrs. Rowe we were eight days on this pleasant excursion which afforded us the highest gratification and tended greatly to exhilcrate my father’s spirits by the novelty of every thing around us. Yesterday we took possession Of a de¬ lightful small house on the banks of the Clyde; for the accommodations we are indebted to our obliging friend. Here we seem to breathe an air of tranquillity; and if happiness can be derived from local cir¬ cumstances I flatter myself we shall par¬ take of its influence.Miss Macintire my fellow-traveller is an amiable woman ; cheerful but not gay ; her natural vivacity received a severe check nearK 3 ten
ten years since by the premature death of a gentleman Hie was engaged to marry : he was thrown from his horse and killed on the Ipot.Tenderly faithful to his memory rhe has refused some advantageous offers and without making any vows is I believe resolved to remain single. She lives with her uncle and presides over his houlliold has a handsome independent fortune which is rendered by her benevolence a bleffmg to others. Fortunately for me I have the honour of possefling her good opinion; my disposition is similar with her’s. She is astonished to find so very young a wo¬ man with so little inclination to gaiety and so desirous of information. From her knowledge I hope to derive improvement for the Scotch are certainly very intelligent people.We have had letters from our beloved Frederic very satisfactory as to his situation;and
and this moment one is brought to me from my sifter who by the post-mark is I fee still at Stanton-Place.Adieu my worthy friend. Believe that your letters afford me the greatest pleasure and then I know your kindness will not shrink from a task that gratifies another.— My father’s affectionate remembrances ac- company’s the best wishes ofYour obliged friendMARY BOYLE.K4LETTER
LETTER XXLLORD GAYWIT TO MISS BOYLE."OARDON me my dear Miss Boyle for thus breaking in upon you for distur¬ bing your peace and wounding your feel¬ ings by a recital of my anxieties. Be not however too much alarmed; your fitter is well—but I am unhappy ; perhaps I may be wrong; let your gentle mind counsel and direct me I will implicitly sub¬ mit to it.When firtt I knew your charming fitter I was a gay volatile fellow too indolent to seek after improvement and too well satisfied with.
with myself and the reception I met with from the world to think intellectual know¬ ledge of much consequence. Till I saw my Caroline I knew not that I had a heart for she was the only one that I ad¬ mired beyond the passing moment. For¬ tunately as I thought she honoured me with a declared partiality in my favour and after some obstacles (obstacles never started by me) we were united.Every hour lias increased my love ; that delightful pailion has given me a new foul. Conscious of my deficiencies I have fought in my father's library to recover the time I have negligently spent and acquire that information I was formerly little desirous to obtain. My wife has been the stimulus to lead me into knowledge. to make ipy- felf respectable in her eyes—the first wish of my heart.-But you will think I am writing my own eulogium ;—yet it is ne- ceffary I should do myself justice. Alas I my amiable filter I can no longer be de-K 5 ceived.
ceived no longer exult in the affection of my too-charming Caroline.Within fix days after our arrival here the veil was withdrawn which vanity had thrown over my eyes. Sir James Nicholls engrosses every attentive look every obli¬ ging word. I endeavoured to disbelieve my lenses and the observations of others : I sought by redoubled tenderness to please i lie object of my dearest affections. My assiduities were repulsed with peevishness my fondness with ridicule. I then tried if the molt gentle admonitions would have any effect; they were received with scorn and ill-humour. I am ashamed to confess even to you that a serious dispute ensued in which flic was the conqueror for I could not support her coldness and displeasure.— She fees her power and like a merciless tyrant makes me feel it.For many days past things have grown to a great height—there appears so much intelligence between her and Sir James that it
it attracts the attention of the whole party. Unwilling to throw the flighted spot or suspicion on her reputation by taking no¬ tice of her very reprehensible conduct I affect a pleasantry far from my heart and behave to Sir James with politeness though not with cordiality. Were I to do other¬ wise to require his absence or an explana¬ tion of his conduct I should irreparably wound the fame of my wife and gratify his vanity.A painful incident which fell within my knowledge this morning (for indeed I did not seek it) determined me once more tenderly to hint at the uneasiness I felt from her indifference. Her answer I cannot repeat; it was cruel and mortifying. Very soon aster she insulted my best friend in a manner too gross for even his attachment to me to endure : he leaves us this evening. She accused him of making me jealous and of being a malicious spy upon her actions. Poor Gardner! how very unjust the accu-K 6 lation !
fation ! Not a word to her disadvantage has ever escaped his lips—not a sigh has been breathed by me nor even a look that he could interpret as proceeding from an uneasy mind. Even her treatment of him would have been concealed from me had she not exultingly boasted of it to my face for Gardner pretended letters had called him to town.Think my dear sister what must be my feelings 1 My father adores her : when in his company she is guarded and circum- ipect ; but of late she retires much to her dressing-room or rambles alone in the shrub¬ bery always declining my company. The Earl talks of venturing to travel next week. Sir James will no longer be an inmate of our house ; but what avails that if I have lost the affection of my wife ? The posses¬ sion of her person the empty title of a husband cannot satisfy me without the more valuable possession of her heart.Teach
Teach me oh ! teach me the happy art to obtain that blessing : to you I have dis¬ closed the anxiety that threatens the en¬ tire destruction of my happiness. Counsel me I beseech you my dear Miss Boyle.— My attentions to her are unremitting when she will permit them ; but my affection is her jest — Ilie laughs at my antediluvian ideas of reciprocal tenderness: and wonders any man of fashion can be so outre as< to be seen dangling after his wife. '■•’' Point out to me you who know every movement of her heart the steps I should pursue to re- cal that tender affection I once fopdly thought was unalterably my own. I have strictly observed every word and action of mine1IilXx'*‘' since I became her husband J am not conscious of any impropriety in cither tell me then I beseech you if the has ob¬ served>i1Il>‘*1 to you any errors which 1'1Iil’1 may amend and it shall be the pleasure ofmy life to be every thing stie wishes me to be— either the most affectionate of husbands or if her heart be irrecoverably lost then to
to spare both her and myself from the li¬ centious tongues of the world. I will leave England that I may not by an act of jus¬ tice render our charafters the sport of the malicious and be ourselves miserable for ever.Let not the worthy Mr. Boyle participate in my vexations. You and you only enjoy my confidence for I saw enough of your amiable disposition to be assured that you will sympathize with me. Farewell then my sifter my friend ; believe that I am not unworthy of the claims and hasten to me your kind advice.GAYWirLETTER4
LETTER XXII.MISS BOYLE TO LORD GAYWIT.J Need not tell your lordship how greatly the letter I have had the honour to re¬ ceive from you has mortified and distressed me. Not for worlds would I have such painful intelligence reach the ears of my father ; yet I trust our fears are more a- larmed than is necessary.My sister possesses the most lively spirits and the most playful disposition but surely not a bad heart. Your lordship’s affection for her is her boast and pride : the vanity you
you have raised die willies you to support by giving her consequence. A small tinc¬ ture of coquetry is not uncommon in so very young and so very lovely a woman as your Caroline. Her gaiety and the plea¬ sure of being admired run away with her prudence sometimes; but it is more the playfulness of disposition than the errors of the heart ; — be assured it is. Did I think otherwise I should be miserable.Your lordship does me the honour to ask my advice; it is a delicate affair ;. but considering things in the point of view you have placed them I would certainly leave Stanton-Place and your present society and go to Bath or some public place of amuse¬ ment where variety on which she dotes might entirely obliterate any prepossessions you suppose she entertains.For my own part I attribute the folly of her conduct entirely to vanity and gaiety. Fall in with her humour; do not appear hurt
hurt by her temporary indifference which I think ajjuwed because it is too fashion¬ able. Seem pleased with her vivacity laugh at her little absurdities and some¬ times restrain those effusions of tenderness which the capricious heart is not always in a humour to indulge. Keep up your own consequence at the seme time that you ex¬ alt her’s and my life for it! this playful tyrant will descend from her altitudes.Indeed indeed my lord I am persua¬ ded her faults proceed from humour more than from error yet your letter has given me very serious uneasiness because I fee you are unhappy from the trifling conduct; of my filler which cannot be defended though it may be forgiven since any de¬ gree of levity in a wife is truly reprehensi¬ ble. — But consider she is young gay admired and introduced under a charac¬ ter of respectability that commands atten¬ tion and .respectj which joined with the admiration a new and lovely object is sure to
to excite—no wonder if for a time she is a little intoxicated by adulation and sometimes forgetful of what she owes to you and herself.I do not defend her conduct; but I with to do away the most unfavourable part of it by assigning the most probable causes for the effects you lament and I hope to hear very soon that my judgment is found¬ ed on reason. Let me entreat your lord- ship to scan her actions not with a critical eye nor a too indulgent one ; laugh her out of her foibles and you meet her on her own ground. Let the fisttr be the monitrefs — the husband the tender companion of her retired hours and the agreeable friend when in public. Such my lord is the only advice I can give on this very delicate subject.My mind is too much ruffled to enter upon other topics. I had yefterday a letter from my fitter whose communications to me I have reason to think are very unreserved and
WOME"-¬-¬■1Iil' 'N AS THEY ARE.2 11and that I think must give you pleasure.— My father is more tranquillized than I could have expected and we are pleasantly situated.I have the Honour to remainYour Lordship’s affectionateSiller and ServantMARY BOYLELETTER
LETTER XXIH.MISS BOYLE TO MRS. ROWE.Adversity is the touchstone of virtue and human prudence too weak to guard against the machinations of the wicked or struggle against the dispensa¬ tions of Providence. This preface will arm you with fortitude to hear of the misfor¬ tunes which have overwhelmed your friend; not on her own account is she borne down with sorrow but for a parent dearer to her than life who has been■1Iil|—'’‘'het protector and most indulgent'1Iil|—>‘’'friend from her earliest infancy..My
My dear Mrs. Rowe that " man of in* tegrity” as I thought him Mr. Abbot my father’s solicitor whom we empowered to transfer three thousand pound stock for the purchase of an annuity has received the money from the bank with other sums entrusted by persons in the country to his management and has quitted the kingdom with the whole. This blow we received yesterday in a letter from my brother’s trustee. The effect: on my father was dreadful ; he fat transfixed with astonish* merit; not a word escaped his lips and the paper fell from his hands.Alarmed at his situation I forced soma drops and water down his throat and ba¬ thed his temples at the fame time I con¬ veyed the fatal letter into my pocket.—Jn a few moments he recovered speech and action ; he put my hands from him and averted his head. " Mary (said he with a heart-felt sigh) I have now completely ruined you. You are destined to be the victim.
victim for all!" Those words though ter¬ rible and ambiguous relieved me from the most terrifying apprehensions of a much- worse evil than the loss of money." My dear fir (I cried) your Mary can¬ not be injured while she has her dear pro¬ tector with her.”" Do not (said he wildly) drive me to despair and madness :—I fay you are un¬ done ! The three thousand pounds we en- tru led with a villain arc gone—are lost for ever ! and ninety pounds a year is all that is left of a once-ample fortune to sup- port my child.”" Is that aU the evil that has befallen us my father ?—then I can bear them cheer¬ fully. You indeed must feel the want of m my comforts that I regret; but I have long accustomed myself to expect my fal¬ ling fortunes and therefore (hall not shrink now when the blow is given. In this cheap country ninety pounds a year will be af- tluence”Unable
Unable to speak he threw his arms round me and wept aloud. The scene grew too distressing for description and much diffi¬ culty bad I to calm the transports of grief and felf-accufation which my afflicted pa¬ rent vented on himself. He never closed his eye-lids for the night: I heard his deep- tetebed sighs that wounded my very foul and this morning he joined me pale un- refreshed and agitated. He viewed me with a scrutinizing eye. If my looks were a transcript of my heart only anxiety for his health and peace were depicted there.Thank heaven 1 while we sat at break¬ fast vainly trying to eat the good Mr. Macnicl came in. He instantly perceived all was not right and bis compassionate glances seemed to demand the cauic.I rose. " Dear sir acquaint Mr. Mac- niel with the intelligence we have received. His advice may relieve the oppression of your mind.”I withdrew and involuntarily took up my pen to address you.I will
I will not attempt to impose upon you my good friend nor appear so romanti¬ cally abstracted as not to regret the loss of this money; yet it is for my father I feel far far beyond any considerations for my¬ self. He has been for years struggling with sorrows; he has felt much pain under the idea that great injustice has been done to me and my sister aggrandized at my ex¬ pence. A mind delicate as his has borne those reflections very hardly and difficult has been my talk to over-rule them and subdue the poignancy of self-reproach. — The alluring scheme held out by that base man Abbot delighted him because it promised so large an addition to our income that I might be able to enjoy many little elegancies I had given up. It was for my gratification that he was anxious and his motives demanded my gratitude be the event what it may.We cannot look into futurity nor scru¬ tinize the heart of man which is too often enveloped5
enveloped by a semblance of virtue as an artificial covering to a base mind ; there¬ fore when reason and probability sanction the cause we are not answerable for the event and I trust your little pupii will not be a philosopher in theory only though the practical part may be attended with some difficulties at first; one os which will I think be a removal from this sweet spot we have just taken possession of for our in¬ come will not support it.— No matter; content is not confined to local situations; the mind must carve it out and I am not fastidious. Mr. Macniel is gone : I hasten to my father.My dear Mrs. Rowe my fortitude is subdued: the distress of my belo e.. pa¬ rent is more than I can support. Every at¬ tempt of mine to console him every pros¬ pect 1 hold out of future comfort only adds to his affliction and regret beer use he persists in tninking I have deserved t- ter fortune and have been sacrificed to selfish vol. i. L ambitious
ambitious projects;—projects which I fear will terminate to little advantage. I protest tf>- you that I have never grieved at the -distinction; but it is in vain I declare this to my father; he either does not or will •not '1Iil|—i!!‘’'believe me< or else he reflects too se¬ verely on himself.He told Mr. Macniel the intelligence we had received the very narrow income we possessed and his resolution to retire into the North of the country where he could live on a very comparative small sum;—but what do you think was the proposal tacked to this resolution ? — that / should leave him and either return to England and board in a family or remain as a boarder with Mr. Macniel he retaining only twenty pounds a year for his own support.I never was really grieved till this mo¬ ment. Could my father think so meanly of me as to believe I would leave him ?— did he suppose my affection and duty so ^ery light that in the hour of trial when love
love duty gratitude and every affectio¬ nate principle called upon me to attend comfort and cherish him that I would basely prefer my own gratification and de~ firt him? O my dear Mrs. Rowe ! you know not how cruelly I was humbled by the supposition!I told him and truly told him " that if he wished my happiness or would raise me into consequence with myself in a belief that I deserved and pofiefied his affection he would consider us as inseparably united in oqe interest — as a link in one great chain which if broken could never be repaired j and that as a child I had a claim if not an absolute right to his care and protection and whilst he lived I ought not to be thrown on the world as a deserted daughter.”I -believe I spoke too warmly ; I know I spoke feelingly for I was greatly agitated ; and the effect it produced on my dear parent I cannot describe : h wounded me to myL 2 very
ambitious projects;—projects which I fear will terminate to little advantage. I protect Uhyou that I have never grieved at the '’'distinction; but it is in vain I declare this to my father; he either does not or will •not'i1Il|—>!1 believe me* or else he reflects too se¬ verely bn himself.He told Mr. Macniel the intelligence we had received the very narrow income we possessed and his resolution to retire into the North of the country where he could live on a very comparative small sum;—but what do you think was the proposal tacked to this resolution ? — that / should leave him and either return to England and board in a family or remain as a boarder with Mr. Macniel he retaining only twenty pounds a year for his own support.I never was really grieved till this mo¬ ment. Could my father think so meanly of me as to believe I would leave him ?— did he suppose my affection and duty so Aery light that in the hour of trial when love
love duty gratitude and every affectio¬ nate principle called upon me to attend comfort and cherish him that I would basely prefer my own gratification and de^ fart him? O my dear Mrs. Rowe I you know not how cruelly I was humbled by the supposition!I told him and truly told him " that if he wished my happiness or would raise me into consequence with myself in a belief that I deserved and pojjejsed his affection he would consider us as inseparably united in ope interest — as a link in one great chain which if broken could never be repaired ; and that as a child I had a claim if not an absolute right to his care and protection and whilst he lived I ought not to be thrown on the world as a deserted daughter."I believe I spoke too warmly ; I know I spoke feelingly for I was greatly agitated ; and the effect it produced on my dear parent I cannot describe : if" wounded me to myL 2 very
220 WOMEN'Ttr!’”' AS THEY ARE.very foul and I was obliged to leave him Very abruptly. Mr. Macniel proposed to bring his niece this evening and my father did not forbid it. I believe I am not so good as the partiality of my friends have represented me. I feel that I have a proud heart ; I am hurt at appearing as an ob- ject of pity—as one whose circumstances are reduced. I (hall blush before Miss Macintire. — What folly 1—I am ashamed of myself but I cannot conquer my feelings. Do not despite me; I acknowledge my weakness : what I cannot hide from myself I am not solicitous to conceal from you to whom I have no reserves.-They are come ; I am sent for: my spirit revolts but reason mutt support me through those humiliating circumstances.I appeared before our friendly guests with an air of embarrassment that on recohec- tion confuses and hurts me for never did the most attentive politeness exert itself with greater energy to lift us into consequencewith
with ourselves than did tins'•■’ ' worthy uncle and niece. They used every possible argu¬ ment to shake my father’s purpose of retiring: to the North of Scotland but he flood firm to the resolution he had formed when he found that I had not the smallest objection to his plan. Fortunately this house being taken for us by Mi. Macniel jun. during our excursion to the-Isle of Anan he had engaged it only for a mon'1Iil|—‘’'h till he knew how it suited u . Ten day s of this month is unexpired ; a day had been appointed to meet the proprietor with an intention of taking it by the year; now we fir all give no¬ tice of our quitting it.—My father seemed so delighted with the situation so happy in the acquaintance of the Macnicis that when. I reflected on the comforts he mutt give up I confess to you a momentary thought crossed me to avail myself ps Mr. Lranfield’''s libe¬ rality in the delusive hope that it was possi¬ ble our money might be recovered. But I soon blushed at the mean idea. The five hundred pounds were put into my hands:L 3 for.
L22W0MEK AS THEY ARE.for the purposes of benevolence to relieve the wants of the distressed. I thank heaven we can have only artificial wants ; we have yet enough to preserve us from poverty and contempt nor shall the sacred deposit be misapplied. The worthy donor (hall still remain unacquainted with our lots or he would oppress us with offers we could not accept. I am glad that he is now at Naples. "My lister being ignorant of the transac¬ tion between my father and that Abbot can endure no pain on the business for we shall be silent on the subject to all that are not immediately concerned. You only are my confidante; not even my faults shall be screened from your indulgent eye at least such as I am conscious of. Self-love doubtless renders me blind to many but it is a common eiror and I am a very fallible creature.I have more than once•-¬-¬■'‘-repented that I mentioned my chimerical prospects to you;it
it would have been time enough when the affair had been settled I should have spared you then the pain I know you will feel on reading this letter; but I affure you that this evening both my father and I have cheerfully talked over our future plans and are determined to soar above the malice of fortune ; — Hie has no power over our minds. Heaven bless you my good friend ever!Your affectionateMARY BOYLE.Direct as usual.L 4-¬>'’*~'LETTER
LETTER XXIV.MRS. ROWE TO MISS BOYLE.MY dear my amiable young friend how my admiration for you increases hourly I Minds like your’s are fitted to bear adversity and rife superior to the in- constancy of fortunemalice of the world. Providence generally proportions our trials to our prudence and strength of mind ;—bear up then nobly under your dis¬ appointments for I know you are as fitted to k^ne in adversity as to ornament a pros¬ perous state.—Yes I stiall glory in my be¬ loved pupil:—wherever you go to whatever solitude
solitude you wander preserve your fortitude your cheerfulness and health : doubt not that you will one day be recalled to the■•'’‘ ' world and prove an ornament to society and the boast of your admiring friends.Your last: letter followed me to London and was the cause of three days delay in my acknowledgment of it.. My uncle poor man though tottering on the verge of the grave with an incurable disorder added to leventy-two years yet eagerly grasps at a shadow and equally against: advice and probability would undertake a fatiguing journey here to place himself under the care of an advertising empiric who pretends to infallibility in curing all disorders. Pe¬ remptory in his resolutions my little rea¬ soning availed nothing and therefore I ac¬ companied him..The last: ten years have been spent hi throwing away his fortune on ignorant pre*- tenders and gradually undermining his-con¬ stitution by taking such an immense quan*L $ tity
tity of drugs without receiving the small¬ est benefit. Long before I came to reside with him the faculty had pronounced his cafe hopeless as to cure though he might live many years ; and indeed seventy-two is not a short span. May he obtain tire re¬ lief he so sanguinely expects !Yefterday two gentlemen called on my uncle. We were playing back-gammon his chief amusement. One of them who was introduced to me as a Mr. Gardner I thought uncommonly pleating in his person and manners; I should suppose about thirty but free from every degree of foppishness and folly— a polite manner that denoted the gentleman and a cheerful sobriety if I may so express myself that displays good sense and good-nature.After a little common conversation Mr. Gardner said he had only been a sew days in town having spent a month at Stanton^ Place. This caught my attention : I has¬ tily asked “ Were Lord and Lady Gaywit there ?”
there ? and observed with some surprise that he changed colour at the question and an¬ swered with a little hesitation " Yes ma¬ dam I lest them there but I apprehend their-stay will be short.—Are you acquainted with them ?”" Not with his lordship : I resided some years in Lady Gaywit’s family.”“ Aye the more to my lhame” said my uncle bluntly." My niece’s father was my younger bro* ther a clergyman. He married for love had a large family buried his wife and at his own death left his children nothing but an excellent education. I had married a fortune but had no children. My wife was a gay expensive woman ; she would not hear of any thing being done for poor Frank’s children at home : I therefore helped them a little sent the boys to sea and would have placed the two girls in a thop but this saucy proud creature chose to be independent and exert her talents for the benefit of others. So flic resided-¬1IilJj'' inL 6 Mr.
Mr. Boyle’s family for some years: during that time her fitter died; and on the death of my wife I prevailed with her to forget my neglect of her juvenile years and reside with me. She kindly consented and to her I am indebted for all the comforts my ill health will allow of.—This gentlemen is the hiftory of my niece "This speech was delivered with a volubi¬ lity I could not interrupt and it would have been ridiculous to have quitted the room; but I certainly looked very foolish for a woman of fix and thirty. The gen¬ tlemen applauded my uncle’s candour and paid'°' me some veiy polite compliments.— Mr. Gardner added “ I have been told Miss Boyle is a very accomplished young woman but not so handsome as her fitter."" Perhaps her person may not appear e- qually captivating to a superficial eye though it certainly has many charms;—but her mind-" and then I indulged in my favourite theme till my uncle interruptedme
me with a loud laugh. " A truce a truce Sarah! why we shall all fall in love and'■Xx1Iil’‘1 go to loggerheads for this phœnix. Is ihe shut up in a box or how comes it she is not married ?"" Because Ihe is unknown and avoids admiration as sedulously as the generality of young women court it.—But doubtless firy (addressing Mr. Gardner) you think Lady Gaywit very beautiful ?"" I do madam think her the loveliest woman I ever saw and I believe it is a ge¬ neral opinion neither is the lady unconscious of her own charms.”" Perhaps not (I replied ;) from her ear- liest years Hie was the idol of her mother and aunt and from infancy accustomed to praise and adulation.”“ Poor Gaywit! (returned he with a shrug and an expressive look;) I.e dotes on his lady and seems inclined to become a re- fpcctable domestic husband ; but Lady Gaywit I forclee will excite universal ad¬ miration and seems to have sufficient ani¬ mation to enjoy it.”The
The conversation changed to another subject but the observation of Mr. Gard¬ ner though in fact it implied nothing wrong in Lady Gaywit yet there was a meaning in his countenance that on reflection gave me some inquietude. You are always silent re¬ specting your sifter whether by accident or design I know not and perhaps I am wrong to inquire therefore I will drop the subject. I am called upon to go an airing with my uncle. Adieu my amiable my respected friend: may everyblefiingattend you that is attached to virtue and goodness praysYour obliged and most affectionate. SARAH ROWS..LETTER
LETTER XXV.MISS BOYLE TO LADY GAYWIT.My dear SifterWHY are you silent ? I have for this last week daily expected to hear from you. Has my last letter* offended ? Can you be-displeased with the anxiety I ex- preffed and the disapprobation>'-¬1Iilt’' I avowed to your present frivolities ? Am I no longer worthy of your confidence ? Ah ! my dear Caroline do not deprive me of your cor¬ respondence nor judge unfavourably of my solicitude for your happiness and honour.Do- ■•"-¬'1Iil‘ 1 1 i'1Iil|—■‘’'T—T-- ■•'’‘ ' ---• This does not appear.
2J2 WOMEN'><(’' AS THEY- AREvDo not trifle with either : you have a hus¬ band who adores you; you have friends wno admire you ; let your conduct chal¬ lenge from every one respect.Your husband’s friend is entitled to the fame consideration you shew to others— politeness and general attention; more no man has a right to claim from a married woman. It is impoflible Mr. Gardner would presume to breathe a word to your prejudice; be assured it cannot be ; and forgive me for saying that your conduct ought to be such that might place the supposition out of all probability -from its strict propriety. Heaven forbid that Lord Gay wit should for a moment doubt your affection for him; but I will not dwell oru a thought so painful..Write to me I beseech you as affec¬ tionate and unreserved as ever if you have* any value for my peace. I am going a little- excursion to tire North of Scotland but your;letters
letters will travel after me; write therefore J conjure you to account for this alarming lilence.I am ever my dear sifterYour true frkn 1MARX BOXLE*LETTER XXVI.LORD GAYWIT TO BEVEL GARDNER ESQ.BEAR with me Gardner for I am mi¬ serable ! My wife my angel loves me no longer!—Did ihe ever love me ?—. Distraction to doubt it! yet a thousand little
little incidents throw me into the most pain¬ ful incertitude ; and this last this alarming proof of her indifference cuts me to the foul. Could (lie hive insulted my best friend if my peace were dear to her ?—Im¬ possible ! The damning proof confirms my wretchedness The tyrant fees her power she fees that I adore her and most ungrate¬ fully she trifles with my love and anxiety.I endeavoured to conform to your advice the day you left Stanton-Place. I dressed my face in smiles concealed the anguish of my mind under an affected gaiety and was more attentive to the company than usual. Lady Gaywit wore an air of and seemed to read my foul by her penetrating glances.t1Iil‘* 1 After tea when the company walked out and divided into little parties she and Sir James contrived to linger behind ; I would hope it was in a spirit of playfulness to torture me ; but I took no notice and attached myself to Mrs. Grantham.Scamper
Scamper came to us and was fattened upon by Lady Penri:kard vv hd looked piqued ; and angry at Sir James. Almeria and the gentle Mam withdrew to a different part of the garden.. We sometimes miffed each other in the shrubbery. Turning suddenly into one of the walks we stumbled upon my wife and Sir James he at the very moment lifting her hand to his lips He started and let it drop; she looked confused. Mrs. Gran¬ tham turned full upon me but I took no notice and with a heart boiling with fury I conducted my partner into another walk.'.°>"“ Sir James is a mighty gallant man (said she.) I thought when first I came to Stan¬ ton-Place he was paying his addresses to cousin Almeria. I believe she thought fb too for the poor girl is strangely altered and looks quite woe-begone.”The observation fired me : " If I believed Sir James had trifled with Almeria and had given
given her cause to suppose he addressed her I would soon call him to account.”" Nay (returned she) it may be only my conjecture but she certainly appears languid and ill.”The subject of our conversation was in¬ terrupted by the object of whom we wen? peaking and I was (truck with her pensive air so very unlike the live'’'y girl we used to accuse of coquetry. My indignation increased every moment as I surveyed her and I determined to have a conversation with her the first opportunity and obtain her confidence if possible.When we assembled at flipper my wife appeared thoughtful and unusually silent. Sir James trifled with Lady Penrkkard*'’‘'? Jhi was mighty stately; in short it was the'i1Il|—!‘1 play of cross purposes and all seemed out of humour. Lady Gaywit complained of the head-ache when we retired and I too truly felt the heart-ache. This day we dine with Sir William Allen—the whose family;for
for the Earl is so much better that he re¬ solved to accompany us of course Alme¬ ria cannot excuse herself.I have a very great depreflion of spirits: my wife looks cold and uneasy ; my ten¬ derness seems troublesome. Lady I enrick- ard and the said some spiteful things to each other; I too well comprehend the motives I hope no one else does.—O Gardner! what is become of my gaiety and spirits ? I must I will exert mylclf nor suffer this tyrant love to rob me of my peace and temper.Gardner J have done with all fond com¬ plainings —my wife is-a common cha¬ racter ; as such I despise her. infamous and hypocritical and yet in person an angel; who muld look in that face and doubt her innocence ?—but she is all art and decep¬ tion.-1 hate her—yes I hate her hear¬ tily ! but I cannot part with her: she (hall not become the property of another.— O Gardner! I am distracted I cannot write particulars;— I have more to do.Fear
Fear not I have no hostile designs against the destroyer of my peace ; I will not wound the bosom of my father by hazarding the life of his only son for whose happiness he is so anxious. I will not be pointed at by the finger of scorn for the husband of a wan¬ ton nor will I give her the power to extend her infamy : I have taken a different reso¬ lution. You and you alone shall know the truth. I am now going to—Caroline : the is no longer my wife : if I can command myself you shall have the particulars.Yesterday we spent the day with Sir William Allen. I strove to appear cheer¬ ful but my observations did not tend to make me so and I was more than once at¬ tacked by Scamper on the loss of my spirits. The desert had but juft been placed on ta¬ ble and the servants withdrawn before they returned in haste saying they believed Mr. Hardman’s house was on fire. (The old fel¬ low had been expected to dinner but it seems had caught a violent cold the other day
day and was incapable of coming out.) We all ran into the hall and saw tire flames raging with violence; the house was not half a mile from Sir William’s. We forgot the table and hastened to the spot leaving the ladies with the Earl.JOur apprehensions were too juft; the house was enveloped in flames. The mi¬ serable owner was standing at the door of a cottage opposite the entrance tearing his hair and beating his breast in a state of distraction ; none pitying him though all were anxious to extinguish the fire.— Furniture there was none worth saving but a few valuable paintings; however every effort was fruitless to preserve the build¬ ing which fell in at length and destroyed all hope.Whether it was the heat that oppressed me or a fearful presentiment on not per- cnvingSir James with us I know not but I grew very sick and disordered. Sir William observing
observing me drew from his pocket a key. “ This opens the opposite gate; it is a short and private way through the wilder¬ ness. Hatten back my lord and get some refreshment; tell the ladies the worft is past.”I took the key without a reply and found it opened into a very short cut across to the home; but my sickness grew so very oppressive that seeing the top of a small tempie among the trees I walked towards it; and turning short round to the front was transfixed with the fight of Lady Gay* wit and Si: James fitting on an Indian cane fofa one of his arms pasted round her waist and fire reclining her head on his shoulder.My soul shrinks with horror at the re- collection of that moment. I stopped short petrified with surprise : something I laid but I know not what. Their confusion and guilt cannot be described. He started up and forcing a ghastly smile upon his aghated5 features
features muttered some unintelligible non¬ sense about Lady Gaywit’s fainting with terror to which I made no reply but a bow and a motion for him to leave us which he perfectly understood and was out of fight in a moment. She fat fixed pale as death and every limb trembling. My sickness was vanished ; superior anguish had driven away all trivial and temporary ail¬ ments.I entered the temple and seated myself by her without having power to articulate a word. Her terror was of much shorter duration than my surprise and grief; for in a few moments she turned indignantly upon me.“ Well sir I suppose your jealous ima¬ gination which has led you to the mean¬ ness of watching me may also lead you to suppose me guilty and infamous; but how¬ ever ill you may be inclined to think of me I know my own innocence and will assert it in opposition to the jaundiced eye of 4 jealous husband."vol. i. M She
She was rising : I took her hand. Her insolence had restored me to sense and in¬ dignation“ Stop madam ; you injure and miscon¬ ceive me. I presume not to judge unfa¬ vourably of such innocent situations. Sir James was very kind in being my substitute : it will be your own fault if any thing tran- fpires to give you pain.”She viewed me with wild astonishment and you I dare fay must be equally fur- prifed at my moderation. I cannot account for the impulse of the moment as I had no time to digest any plan and therefore am superstitious enough to believe it was a sud¬ den inspiration from heaven.Not another word passed between us. I accompanied her to the saloon which opened into the garden where we found the other ladies who sent forth a loud exclamation on seeing us together.What becomes of your supposition now Lady Penrickard ?" asked Almeria." Why2
“ Why for once I may be deceived (answered she ;) but pray how came Lord and Lady Gaywit to meet lo opportunely ? I thought you had gone to that old wret¬ ched miser’s relief."" I did go madam ; but finding all as¬ sistance was useless as the house could not be saved and there was no danger that the fire would spread I returned and had the plealure of meeting Lady Gay wit in the Wiiderneis." What uncommon prescience that of her ladyfliip! (retorted the other with a sneer) to divine that you should return through that unfrequented path. Had she been in Scotland one might have compli¬ mented her with possessing the gift of second fight."" Without any pretensions to that gift (answered Lady Gaywit with a look of con¬ tempt) I can discern the full force of your observation and know how much I am obliged for it."M 2 Almeria
Almeria who saw both ladies swelling with resentment wifely put a flop to further altercation by asking particulars respecting the fire. I was giving her what information the distracted state of my mind would ad¬ mit of when that malicious woman again interrupted me : “ Pray my lord was Sir James with you ?"" I saw him once (I replied without looking at Caroline;) they will all return soon 1 suppose.”In fact they all returned together and the conversation was so thoroughly engrossed by the late event that neither the counte¬ nance of Sir James nor Lady Gaywit at¬ tracted observation. No entreaties bad been sufficient to draw Hardman from his fmoa- king ruins. Curses cries and exclamations were all they could get from him nor could they obtain the least possible satis¬ faction how the house came to be on fire as he very rarely had a spark in his house.We
Women as they are. 245We took leave of Sir William and re¬ turned to Stanton-Place. As we passed through the hall Sir James twitched me by the sleeve; I turned. " A word with you if you please" said he.I stepped back as if to speak to the ser¬ vants. “ Lord Gaywit whatever conjec¬ tures you may have formed from appear¬ ances this evening I assure you upon my honour Lady Gaywit is perfectly innocent. If you judge unfavourably of me I am ready to give you whatever satisfaction you may require.”I replied with great haughtiness " My wife’s innocence needs no asteveration of your s Sir James to establish it. Whatever my sentiments may be of your conduct they are lodged in my own bosom. I require no satisfaction of any kind from you. You are my father'Jj1Iily's guest ; perhaps were you mine I could dispense with your com¬ pany.”I hastily walked on and he followed ms. Very few words pasted between me and myM 3 wife
wife that evening. I told the lingering hours and laid forming a hundred schemes for my future conduct to no purpose ; at length I recollected that my aunt Eleanor had a house in a remote part of Wales which (he had frequently talked of visiting. I resolved to frame some excuse for carry¬ ing my wife there; but I said nothing to her until I had talked with my aunt. The imprudent Caroline was equally restless as myself and I saw my behaviour so calm and indifferent surprised her.After breakfast I took my aunt aside and made known my wish that fire would invite us into Wales. She looked at me with concern : “ I shall be very happy to do so but will Lady Gaywit consent think you ?”“ Leave that to me. Give us the invita¬ tion and fee if she makes any objections.”After this we all assembled in the billiard- room; whilst there several letters were brought from the post: Sir James had oneLady
Lady Gaywit another from her sister which the apologized for withdrawing to read*.Sir James had gone to the window.— "” (cried he with seeming concern) how devilish unlucky ! unexpected business calls me to town ; I must set off to-morrow and leave this agreeable society.”Every one expressed their regret. I gave him a look which he easily translated I believe. Nothing material passed till we met at dinner when my father again lamented that Sir James must leave us as probably in another week or ten days we should all proceed to London.My wife bluffed scarlet deep but said not a word.—Then aunt Eleanor took her cue." I wish (said she) I could persuade Lord and Lady Gaywit to take a tour into W^les with me first. Miss Pcnrickard has kindly promised to spend a few months with me and
and I should like to shew her the romantic beauties of that country before we set down quietly in Berkshire.”“ I accept your invitation with all my foul (I cried out;) and it is impossible Lady Gaywit can have any objection. Parlia¬ ment will break up in a month at farthest the town will grow dusty and empty ; my father will stay but a very short time.”" What (cried my father interrupting me) do you not intend to be presented at court before the birth day ? Indeed Gaywit I mutt insist upon that."I was now thrown out of my politics.—;:;:; After a moment’s hesitation " Well my lord then I will compromise the matter; let us adjourn to London en famille we will go through the ceremony of presenta¬ tion and then attend my aunt on a tour into Wales.”" Agreed (replied my father ;) my Kay will be very short as the season is too far advanced
advanced to be comfortable in London.— It will not be worth while to go into your own house; mine is large enough to ac¬ commodate you and as many "”I Hole a look at my wife. Her features had brightened up amazingly. Whether she is innocent or guilty the braves it out.But what do I talk of innocence ?—Can y7ze be innocent who admits such freedoms as I was a witness to ?—Oh ! no impos¬ sible !-If Hie has not fallen into infa¬ my there is a depravity of mind—a vio¬ lation of decency never never to be ex¬ cused !"-¬■'‘’_' — But the shall not make me the public scorn and I will if possible pre¬ serve her from yet further contamina¬ tion.My mind is in tumults! Love and in¬ dignation rack me alternately. When I look
look on her I adore her;—when absent I reverse the fascinating object and fee her fondly reclining on the shoulder of Sir James.— Confusion ! my brain is on fire with the idea !— Pity me Gardner ! for never man suffered such torturing conflicts as I endure.This letter so unequal so incoherent has been the work of three days. Sir James is gone. Canes en the name would I had never seen him for he has destroyed my peace !In five days we shall be in London; I must insist upon your visiting me at my father's: I will not be denied. Mr. and Mrs. Grantham go to Bristol. Sir Roger and his lady to her great mortification into Cornwall. Maria remains as my aunt’s guest. Sir William Allen accom¬ panies us to town; he is a worthy man. I hope Almeria will be persuaded to give him her hand.I have
I have this moment heard that unfor¬ tunate wretch Hardman is raving mad. His money is buried in the ruins; in some vault it is believed; but he would give no directions where to dig and could not remove the rubbish himself. — The conflict between avarice and the apprehension of losing his property by the discovery has actually driven the old miser out of his senses.Oh ! I can easily believe that any one over-ruling passion may disorder our intel¬ lects : I am more than half-mad myself!Scamper is riding up the avenue. I wish to fly from myself; and even his un¬ meaning rattle is music to the discord of my mind.Farewell. This is the longest letter I ever wrote in my life; but I could blot five or fix sheets more were I to express the distracted feelings of my heart and my head.As
. As you value the friend (hip of your friend come to me when I am arrived in town.Your’s>GAT WitEND OF VOL. k